CHAPTER I

Bullet Proof


Julian Epworth reasoned that his departure from Salt Lake City was a
profound secret. The fact that an airship carrying gold was on the way
to Los Angeles convoyed by armed airplanes had been kept inside of the
office. Because of this Epworth thought that he had an easy job.

“What’s the big idea about all this fancy maneuvering?” Billy Sand
inquired curiously as Epworth gave the order to close up a little on
the other nine planes flying in a straight line ahead in military
formation. “You are acting as if there is a war on, and if we were
trying to hatch a machine gun nest.”

“Now that we are up in the air, and there is no chance of a leak I
will explain. The twin red and green lights that you see ahead are on
one of our airplanes carrying a gold shipment consigned to the mint.
Recently a plane similarly loaded disappeared, and our company lost a
million dollars. We do not propose that such a steal shall be
repeated.”

“A million! And this crate ahead is carrying that much?”

“It is carrying two million. But,” Epworth’s lips twisted
determinedly, “I do not think that an air pirate will be able to get
away with it—not as long as these ten little babies can shoot.”

Julian Epworth was the head of the secret service of the
Atlantic-Pacific Airlines, Inc., and he imagined that his plans had
been extremely well laid.

Billy glanced up at the clear sky, picked up the signals, and, in
obedience to Epworth’s command, closed in on the four planes flying on
the left of the large passenger ship in the lead. A ship launched
secretly into the air in the dead of night, and picked up on the
desert by an escort of ten planes, should certainly be safe from a
robber.

“Not a chance in a million that we will be stopped,” he remarked
thoughtfully. “Look at the moon and the stars! We could see a plane
ten miles away, and get it long before it could get in shooting
distance.”

Feeling in a good humor and perfectly safe, Epworth tuned in on the
radio—just loud enough to bring the news of the world to them, and not
loud enough to give a warning to any other flyer in the sky that might
be secretly approaching.

Suddenly Billy leaned toward his companion excitedly, and caught his
arm.

“Did you hear that? I am speaking about that noise that is coming over
the radio.”

“Of course I heard it.”

The radio was saying:

“This is Clarence Ainslee, astronomical observer at Mount Wilson
Observatory. Are you looking at the moon? If not, get a large
telescope and look at the extreme western extremity of the Sea of
Vapours. You will see something you never saw before. There is a lake
or sea forming there. At least that is the judgment of astronomers.”

“What do you think about it?” Billy asked.

“Horse radish.”

Both aviators looked toward the bright shining full moon.

“But,” Epworth remarked, “we could not tell anything with our naked
eyes.”

“In addition to the appearance of a new lake,” the radio continued,
“vegetation is appearing not far from the eastern border of the water.
The mystery of this is now puzzling the scientific world.”

“Let them puzzle,” Epworth muttered as he switched the radio dial. “I
should worry.”

“This is the news report from the morning _Blade_,” they heard the
radio say. “Station WGCF. The report has just come in that twenty
masked men, all of whom spoke a foreign tongue, have robbed the Swift
& Co. laboratory. They lined up the seventy chemists and their
assistants, and while the gunmen held them and their helpers the
bandits looted the plant. Thousands of dollars in liquid air,
saltpeter, and chemicals were carried off in two enormous airplanes,
dim shadowy things that stretched out two thousand feet in length.”

“Some little airplane. I’d like to see it!”

“Airplane?” Billy snorted indignantly. “They are using dirigibles of
course.”

“What do you suppose they wanted with all that nitrogen and
fertilizer?”

“Couldn’t guess in a million years.”

Epworth sat up straight. He had caught a view of two wriggling red
lights ahead.

“There are the signals,” he cried excitedly. “Something is going on
ahead.”

Both aviators went into action. Epworth seized the controls and Billy
grabbed a machine gun. Both were still thinking about the long
cylinder-like airplanes described by the radio. Epworth kept his eyes
fixed on the airship carrying the gold. A red rocket shot out suddenly
from the side of this airplane; followed by another. These signals
were answered by nine planes that were following Epworth’s guidance
through the silent night lanes.

To one who did not understand, the sky looked like a pyrotechnic
display.

               *       *       *       *       *

Like avenging demons the entire convoy started toward the plane
sending out the distress signals, sweeping through the sky without
lights, and their silencers hiding their approach. But what they saw
caused every aviator and every machine gunner to pause for a second in
astonishment.

An immense airship, not less than two thousand feet long, was hovering
over the passenger Douglas, guiding its movements, and twenty men were
running down a ladder that had been let down into the aviator’s seat
of the Douglas.

Epworth, who was leading the formation of five on the larboard side,
did not permit his astonishment to delay action. With a jerk he seized
the control, slammed the stick into his stomach, banked slightly,
leveled out until the side of the big airship was in line with his
machine gun, and with a hoarse cry opened a broadside at the sky
pirate—for pirate he was certain the big plane was.

When he fired he was not over one thousand feet from the pirate, and
it was impossible to miss. In addition to this he had come up with a
big surprise—feeling certain that the air bandits did not know that
the treasure ship was convoyed. He expected to see his rain of lead
tear through the cowling of the stranger and deal death and frenzy.
His example was followed by every scout plane on the larboard side. A
second later the five planes on the starboard swept up and poured a
fierce rain of lead at the stranger. It was a barrage from both sides
that it seemed would destroy anything earthly.

Yet the pirate floated serenely in the air as if it had been bombarded
with peanuts, its secretly-constructed armor turning machine bullets
like pellets.

Epworth give the signal, and again both formations poured their
hurricane of death at the pirate. But when this bombardment seemed to
pass harmlessly through the stranger, Epworth changed his tactics. He
aimed at four men who were climbing down the ladder from the pirate
into the Douglas. This time his shots cut the ladder into ribbons, and
the four men tumbled down into the Douglas. Epworth, while feeling
that he had full authority to do battle, wanted to capture the pirate
and not kill the men. In this he succeeded, as to the killing, as the
four pirates fell on top of the Douglas, or into the aviator’s seat.

At this moment the bandits got to fighting. Two sheets of mysterious
flames burst simultaneously from both sides of the immense thing, and
then all became still.

But those two broadsides were enough. The ten convoy airships conked,
whirled over in the air, and began to fall.

“Jump, Billy!” Epworth cried out loudly. “Jump!”

There was need. The battle was over, and the pirate plane, with the
stolen Douglas now under complete pirate control, passed away into a
dim shadow. The twenty occupants of the destroyed convoy planes jumped
out almost at the same second, and sprang as far away from their
falling crates as possible.

Epworth’s umbrella opened within ten seconds. He saw Billy shoot by
like a chunk of lead. Billy was his best chum, and his heart sank with
the thought that he would be dashed to pieces against the ground.
Frantically he leaned out. Other pilots were going by but he managed
to keep his eye on Billy. Finally he straightened up with a cry of
relief. Billy’s parachute was spreading.

“Safe,” he cried, “but great heavens what a battle! That plane’s sides
are bullet proof, and it rides the sky as if it owned it.”

He looked upward. All he could see above his head were the stars.
These were blotted out by the rapid approach of the earth, and the
peak of the high mountain passing by him.

He landed safely but what would the president of the Air Company say
when he returned with this terrible and unexpected disaster to report?




CHAPTER II

The Stowaway


They were seated in the living room of President Epworth’s palatial
residence in Hollywood. While the conversation was in a low tone and
seemingly calm there was an air of tenseness that got on the nerves of
the speakers.

“So you suggest——”

President Epworth paused, and looked interrogatingly at his nephew,
Julian Epworth.

“That we send out a dummy on an alleged trip to Japan, start it
secretly but with sufficient tips to permit the knowledge of its
departure to circulate. With it send a small shipment of money. Let
Billy Sand pilot the dummy, and I will follow in a swift scout plane
equipped to cross the Pacific. If the sky bandits attack, Billy is to
be instructed to offer no resistance, and I will lag behind and follow
the robbers to their lair. When I return we will fall on that bunch
with the entire United States army. Believe me I do not speak loosely
when I say that the army will be necessary. Those bandits have the
best fighting air vessel invented. They are far ahead of anything I
have ever heard of in the way of air pirates.”

“And that dummy should carry——”

“Enough gold to relieve it of the suspicion that it is a plant.”

The president tapped the table with his fingers.

“Our company cannot afford to lose any money.”

“My idea is to make the cargo large enough to pay a profit if it goes
across but not large enough to create a great loss. If the bandits
come I have a hunch that they will be connected with the men who
robbed Swift & Co., Ford, Dupont, and others. If I can trace them to
their lair we stand a chance to get all that back.”

“Notwithstanding the fact that you are my nephew, Julian, I placed you
at the head of our secret service because I knew that you had ability
in spite of your youthfulness. I am now putting a grave responsibility
on you. We cannot do business while a bunch of hijackers are running
the air lanes, and stealing everything valuable we send out. We must
stop business or catch the thieves. The first thing we know they will
be dropping bombs on our airports. I am going to put this matter up to
you.”

“Just what do you mean by that?”

“I mean that you have the responsibility of catching these men. I am
turning the matter entirely over to you for action.”

“Very well, I accept the charge.”

As a result of this conversation Epworth concluded to send out the
Greyhound, a large 12-passenger Douglas—old but a good flyer. Billy
Sand was named as the pilot and entire crew. After studying weather
conditions closely it was decided to make the start the following
Thursday night.

So secret was Epworth in his method that he planted his small H.B. in
an open space near Hines Field, six miles from the airport of the
Atlantic-Pacific Company, and the only person he took completely into
his confidence was Billy Sand, his aviation buddy and chum. Billy did
not even let Bert Orme know that Epworth was to follow them. To Orme
it looked as if an honest-to-goodness flight was being made across the
Pacific Ocean.

Billy was instructed to show constantly by night three red lights, one
on each wing, and one on the tail of the Greyhound. These lights were
to be turned on every night at sundown during the entire trip. In
addition to this Epworth decided to fly the pursuit by himself.

At eleven forty-five the young man moved his plane from its hiding
place, and mounted into the air. He chuckled as he took the air. His
sister, Joan, was the only living person who knew where this plane had
been hidden and he felt certain that it could not have been
“doctored,” although he had been late in getting to it.

Unfortunately for his purpose the night was dark and a heavy fog had
come up from the ocean about ten o’clock, and for ten minutes he
feared that the fog banking against the windows of his cockpits would
prevent observation. With a snort of dismay he threw open the window,
and leaned out. The great City of Los Angeles, with its myriads of
beautiful lights spread beneath, and he lost three minutes locating
the five-pointed lights that marked the Atlantic-Pacific airport. He
was flying low, circling like an eagle, and he lost several seconds
more getting to the airport.

Had he arrived too late?

He anathematized himself, and snarled at the darkness that had caused
him to be late in getting to his plane. Billy, by this time, was
probably on his way.

He searched the sky with his binoculars. The three red lights the
Greyhound was to display were not visible. Was it possible that his
secret plans had already come to naught? Would Billy fly out over the
ocean and rush into the hands of the pirates without accomplishing any
good?

For a moment he had a spell of very bad humor; then he whirled the
nose of his plane out toward the Pacific Ocean. He knew the course the
Greyhound would travel. He had been careful with his instructions to
Billy about getting into the air and these instructions conveyed to
Billy the idea that he was to give no heed to the little plane that
followed him. This meant that Billy would take a direct bee line out
over the ocean, and expect him to follow as if there was to be an
ordinary oceanic flight.

Rising two thousand feet, he shot forward with all the speed his
wonderfully fast little bird could travel—three hundred miles an hour.
In a brief slip of time he was over San Pedro, and could hear the roar
of the ocean sweeping against the rocks north of Point Firmin. Bearing
N by W he flashed over the extreme end of Catalina Island on the
north. Still the dense fog rolled against his windows and into the
cabin; and the three red Greyhound lights were not visible.

He groaned in an agony of spirit. What would his Uncle William say to
this terrible waste of money and inefficiency?

“And what will Joan say?” he asked himself aloud in a strained hurt
way. “She also will think that I’m a slip-up.”

“She will say that you have a very fast little airplane, that you can
fly circles around the Greyhound, and that now is the time to fly
them.” A soft, mellow voice answered his query from the rear end of
the cabin. “Fly low, say one thousand feet above the water, and keep
your eyes glued to your field glasses. Joan will watch for you while
you manipulate the controls.”

A handsome, well-formed and athletic young girl, about eighteen years
old, crawled out of the tail of the fuselage, and dropped into the
aviator’s seat by his side.

“H-how did you get here?” Epworth blustered. “What do you mean by
butting in on a dangerous mission like this? How did you find out that
I was going to make this trip? Now I will have to turn around and take
you back. If you were not my sister I’d slam you overboard.”

“Oh, no, you wouldn’t throw me overboard. If you did that you wouldn’t
have a little sister to fuss about. As to all those other
questions—come at me easy. Put them one at a time. But before you
begin to propound them get into some kind of action. Go down a
thousand feet. You are too high in the air.”

This was good sense, and Epworth nose-dived immediately. When he
straightened out on the thousand foot line he leveled his nose
northward into a vast encircling movement.

“You needn’t go any further north,” Joan remarked casually. “I see
your three little old red lights out toward the west.”

Epworth heaved a sigh of relief; and then turned angrily on his
sister.

“Now talk up. You have balled things up terribly. When daylight comes
I will have to signal Billy to go back so that I can take you back
home. You are set for college, young lady, and it is nearing the
opening of the year.”

“I am not going back. My brother is out here on a life and death
mission, my uncle stands to go broke if this mission fails, and I’m
going to help. Get that, Mister Bossy.”

“But you can’t go, Joan. This task may take me to the North Pole, or
to some island in the South Pacific, or to Siam.”

“I am going with you or I am going to jump over the side of this plane
into the ocean.”

There was a finality about her words that carried conviction. That was
Joan all over. She was very quiet, very self-possessed, very polite,
but she was like the Rock of Gibraltar when she made up her mind.

Epworth did not reply. Now that he was actually following the
Greyhound he did not want to desert his task. He pushed nearer to the
three red lights. Billy was purposely running with his cut-outs open,
and he could hear the roar of the Greyhound’s engines. This was
another evidence that he was trailing the right airplane. At this time
all other planes that sailed the air were as silent as birds.

“Now let me hear how you got on to this job?”

“You talk too much,” Joan rebuked severely. “I heard you talking to
Billy last night when he came up to the house.”

“Then if you know about it I guess the bandits know something about it
also,” he chuckled.

Joan did not answer, and for an hour Epworth ran to the starboard of
the Greyhound, and several hundred feet higher.

“There is a shadow hanging over the Greyhound,” Joan observed
presently. “Is it a cloud?”

“So soon!” Epworth exclaimed in astonishment. “Those robbers are
certainly wise ones, and the leak out of the Atlantic-Pacific Airlines
must be as big as a river.”

“I do not seem to get you,” Joan replied slangily. She had been
associating so much with aviators and air men that she had become one.
“Spring a little larger leak in your gas line.”

“You are now going to view the methods of the sky bandits,” he said
slowly, handing her his binoculars. “Keep your eyes fixed on that
shadow, and I will manipulate the plane nearer so that you will be
certain.”

Within three minutes they were close enough to see a sky hold-up. A
long cylinder, tremendously long it seemed to her as she viewed it
through the fog, swung gracefully and easily into position over the
Greyhound, and for several moments ran along smoothly as if it were a
part of the lower airship. Then a trap door opened in the bottom of
the cylinder, a rope fell into the aviator’s seat of the Greyhound,
and ten men descended quickly. For several seconds the ladder swung to
and fro over the Greyhound but when a signal whistle, sharp and clear,
rang out from the aviator’s seat of the Greyhound, the great cylinder
whirled with lightning speed and darted away directly north. It was
swallowed up so quickly in the fog that Joan could only stare at it
with open-mouthed surprise.

When she thought to look back at the Greyhound the captured vessel had
swung into the course of the cylinder.

“It is impossible to follow that thing,” she whispered in awe. “Why it
flies—it flies—like—like——”

“A ball out of a cannon,” Epworth finished. “But fortunately I did not
contemplate following it. We will follow the Greyhound. I knew before
we started out on this trip that those cylinders could gain a speed of
six hundred miles an hour, and my plot was to get them to capture the
Greyhound, and follow it. They have fallen into the plot, and now a
sky bandit, and not Billy, is piloting the plane.”

With a careful movement he dropped in behind the Greyhound, and
climbed up over it. But presently he discovered that he would have to
go higher. The Greyhound was gradually seeking altitude in a long
upward nose sweep. This movement was continued until an altitude of
five thousand feet had been attained. At this altitude the Greyhound
leveled out, put on more speed, and darted courageously toward the
frozen North. Epworth followed, easily keeping the three red lights in
view although the cut-out of the Greyhound was now closed.

“Six hundred miles an hour!” Joan’s voice contained an element of
doubt. “How could they attain such a speed? There is no known force
that will pull them that fast.”

“Goddard’s liquid rockets,” Epworth answered briefly. “I was studying
their explosion when the hold-up was taking place. They have a soft,
low, whirling explosion but these men have gone the scientist one
better. They have found a method of silencing the explosions and still
retaining all the force.”

“My, I wonder where they are taking the Greyhound?”

“We are following them to find out.”

“I am still wondering how the cylinders can give such speed.”

“The rockets are propelled by the steady combustion of carbon in
liquid oxygen.”

“I have an idea that they must be taking the Greyhound a long distance
from home.”

They were.

Four days later Epworth and his sister, Joan, were still following the
stolen airship—and were flying over an unknown portion of the Arctic
Ocean. Below them there was a vast sea of ice.




CHAPTER III

An Arctic Blizzard


On and on, over pale gray wastes, above fleecy clouds and heavy fogs;
high up over tossing waters, and floating mountains of ice—not a stop
for fuel, with engines silenced until they flew like bats in the
night, the Greyhound leading the way, and Epworth sticking to it like
a dark, hungry shadow with his ship lines camouflaged by sky blue
paint, and his eyes ever vigilant.

How Billy managed to keep the three red lights going notwithstanding
the fact that he was a captive was a mystery that Epworth did not
attempt to solve. It was being done, and Epworth was contented to
follow.

At last Northeastern Siberia, and a mysterious range of mountains.
Epworth, taking his position, knew them for the Cherski Mountains,
recently discovered and completely unexplored—a barren, cold, lifeless
region bordering on the Arctic Ocean a thousand miles from the outmost
limits.

How long would this journey last? Where would the Greyhound lead? Had
the sky bandits discovered that they were being followed, and were
they leading him into a death trap amid a vast wilderness of ice?

He examined his gas supply. Joan looked at him inquiringly.

“Just about enough to take us back to Point Hope.”

Her eyes sought the cowling of the little machine fearfully.

“Shall we go back?”

She pointed at the Greyhound.

“Billy is in that ship,” she replied softly. “We cannot leave him. His
liberty, and very likely his life, depend upon our actions.”

He put his hand affectionately on her shoulder—just like a chum. Few
brothers loved their sisters as Epworth loved Joan.

“You are the bravest, squarest girl in the world. I knew you would say
it. But——”

He shook his head.

“We will have to depend upon stealing enough gas from the tank of the
Greyhound to get back,” she added smilingly.

Now the Greyhound turned abruptly westward, and followed the Cherski
Mountains, lowering its altitude to five hundred feet above the
highest peak. Epworth followed persistently, keeping a higher
altitude.

“Small wonder,” Joan remarked as she watched the shadow of the
Greyhound flit swiftly over the face of the white-capped ridges, “that
the governments could not locate them. With their swift airplanes they
dart down on the commerce of the world like Omar on a desert caravan,
and are back in their hidden North Pole lair before the robbery is
known by the authorities. Where are we?”

“Eight hundred miles north by west of Bogosloff Island, perhaps a
thousand miles.”

“So far,” Joan observed patiently, “we have had unusually even
weather. Now we are going to have an Arctic blizzard.”

She pointed north over the long reach of ocean that came up to lash
the mountains beneath them. Epworth shivered. Then he smiled.

“We have a mighty staunch little airship.”

She did not answer for several moments. Would these bandits go on
forever? Was there no hole anywhere for them to hide in?

“The Greyhound has disappeared,” Joan suddenly broke out excitedly. “I
saw it just a moment ago behind that distant peak.”

Epworth glanced out of the window. A sudden sheet of frozen snow and a
rain of heavy chunks of ice struck the window. It came with terrific
fury, unexpected. However, he had adjusted the stabilizer, and
notwithstanding the fact that the little ship was tossed up and down
like a feather and went lop-sided for a second it weathered the
furious burst, and staggered on like a wounded bird.

Epworth gave one more look for the Greyhound. Not a thing was now
visible—not even the rugged snow mountains below. With a grave face he
banked and faced the storm, putting on every ounce of power the engine
would carry. The little plane stood still, poised like an eagle, with
the bronzed shadow of its wings dipped in the immensity of gray storm
and whirling, shrieking wind.

On the windows of his ship the rubber vacuum wipers stopped, choked
immovable by lumps of ice hurled against the glazed surface. To see
out was impossible—he was shooting through darkness, a howling,
shrieking, terrifying murk created by storm. He glanced at Joan. She
smiled at him to cheer him, but it was a courageous effort to conquer
a mighty fear.

He must see out. If they moved forward in the direction they were
headed they would be forced out over the ocean, away from the sky
bandits’ retreat. That camp was somewhere in this range of mountains.
He had a hunch that it was not far away. If he succeeded in his
mission he must keep the mountains in view and make a search when the
frenzy of the storm had passed.

Nevertheless he moved with slow deliberation. He pasted a small strip
of inch-thick Balsa wood beneath the wipers on the window, lighted two
candles and stuck them on the Balsa shelf thus made. It was
dangerous—deadly dangerous. If the storm shot a flash of that blaze
into the gas tank the end would be instantaneous. He smiled grimly,
and nodded at his sister. The girl bowed her head in acquiescence. She
also realized the danger of a flame of fire at this time.

The heat of the candles warmed the window and the wipers began to
move, clearing the space for visibility.

His observations were useless. All he could see was a world of
whirling snow and ice.

He sought altitude. But the higher he ascended the fiercer grew the
storm. Then he nosed down slowly until he stood a thousand feet above
the highest mountain. Then he slowed his engines and allowed the storm
to push him backwards. He was seeking the neighborhood where he had
last seen the Greyhound.

Again he turned his eyes on Joan. She was taking the battle like a
Trojan.

“You are very brave,” he said gently.

“And the boy with me is not a coward,” she replied softly.

She gave him her hand, and there was not a tremble in it.

“I have lost our reckoning, but——”

The sentence was not completed. The tempest increased with
irresistible fury, and shot them down obliquely, catching the
starboard wing, and with weird, demoniacal power whirled the plane
over and over in a rush of air that the propellers were unable to
stop.

Joan was hurled into Epworth’s arms, and both were tossed up and down
in their seats, and against the light cowling. Each second they
expected to be hurled out of the cabin. In order to lessen the danger
Epworth shut off the engine. At least there would be no fire.

“We must jump,” he explained briefly. “The plane is whirling over and
over and will strike a peak soon.”

“Small chance for an umbrella in a storm like this,” Joan returned
quite calmly. “It will be whipped into strips.”

“Yet the parachute is our only hope.”

He hooked the package around her shoulders and adjusted it carefully.
Then he put one around his own shoulders, and handed her a package
that he took from a pocket in the fuselage.

“Some useful articles, and a little food and water,” he informed her.
“May come in useful. We can’t tell what is ahead of us.”

“Good bye, sister.”

“Good bye, brother.”

They smiled at each other, and jumped.




CHAPTER IV

A Flashing Cylinder


Joan was caught in the mighty whirl of the blizzard, her parachute
opened with a spurt, and she was jerked back and forth like a feather
while large chunks of ice shot against her face with sufficient force
to lacerate the skin. She was a brave girl but now a great fear
overpowered her, and she sent out a wild cry of terror.

Her scream reached the ears of her brother over the howling storm, and
his heart went dead. What was happening to Joan? Would it be possible
that she could still have a thread of her parachute left, and that the
wind was ripping it apart?

With feverish eyes he sought in every direction. He could not see her.
Then he realized how puerile his thoughts were. If he chanced to see
her there was nothing that he could do to aid her.

Both parachutes had been made to stand up against hard storms, and
they held notwithstanding the fact that they were whirled over and
over in the rushing air.

After that one wild shout of fear Epworth heard nothing more from
Joan, and now his own danger was such that he had little time to worry
about her. He had to give his own chute all his mind. Drifting swiftly
he was held up by the wind that got under his parachute. Frequently
the umbrella tilted and he thought that it would turn inside out but
his weight held it down in proper shape, and he raced onward. Suddenly
a mountain of snow and ice shot up in front of him. He was on the peak
so quickly that he had little time to think or act. Would he be
slammed against a jagged rock by the terrible wind, and his head
smashed, or would he be dropped into a deep crevasse from which there
would be no possible escape—a place where he would freeze quickly or
else starve?

He was blown over the summit with a scarce twenty feet to spare, and
felt himself falling. He had not fallen far before he discovered that
the mountain sheered off at this point with a deep precipitous cliff.
This cliff shut off the wind, and he began to fall slowly. Looking
down he saw no bottom. He was still in the air.

A sudden gust of wind, a wild shriek and something bumped against him.
Before he realized what was taking place a pair of arms passed around
his waist, and clutched him spasmodically. He recovered his surprise
instantly, and in turn threw his arms around Joan in order that they
should not be separated. The two parachutes had bumped together in an
eddy, and now the ropes were entangled so that they could not separate
if they desired. With a gentle hand he pulled the girl up to his
level.

“Oh, very well,” she said calmly, when she discovered the situation,
“we will die together. It is best.”

She was cold, wet, frightened, but was taking her medicine like a
soldier.

When he looked around the blizzard seemed to be losing its force. He
understood the reason. They had been blown over the top of the
mountains and were falling on the opposite side, and the mountains
shut off the wind. As they fell steadily and their parachutes became
more stable he realized that so far as the storm was concerned they
were safe.

But what would they fall into? He could not look down and see but
presently they slipped into a deep recess in the mountains, and the
noise of the blizzard slackened materially, and they began to descend
faster. Epworth felt as if he wanted to guide the things that were
holding them up to a soft spot—if there was such a thing in this wild,
terrible country—but he was helpless. All he could do was to hold his
sister, and look wild-eyed in all directions.

They were laced together beyond separation, and this gave him comfort.
They would land together; they would meet the same fate; and perhaps
he might be able to save her from death after all.

Now he looked toward the north, and saw some mountains free from snow.
How could this be in this land of perpetual ice? He glanced down, and
discovered that they were falling into a valley several miles long
protected by four immense peaks. As they descended lower the air
became milder, the intense cold, which almost froze his face,
decreased perceptibly, and the wind stopped entirely.

Looking upward he saw the blizzard covering the sky with a sheet of
snow; looking down he saw green spruce trees, and a stretch of sand.

“Snap into it, Joan!” he exclaimed cheerfully, sweet hope springing up
in his heart. “We are going to make a safe landing.”

Joan opened her eyes and shivered.

“A-a-are—we—dead?” she gasped. “This is too awful for life.”

She lifted her head and looked around, and when she saw the rugged
mountains she blanched, but made no comment. He caught her suddenly in
his arms and lifted her above his head.

“W-w-what are you doing?” she whispered faintly. “Let me——”

They landed on a stretch of soft sand before she finished her remark,
and he ran with her for a few steps and stopped. Then, still holding
her, he cut the cords that bound them to the two parachutes. Relieved
of their burden the parachutes tumbled away and disappeared.

When they were able to stand steadily they discovered that they had
stopped just in time to keep from going over and down another steep
precipice.

“I see,” Joan grumbled, “trying to keep me from being hurt. I will
have you know, Mister Man, that I take my share of all the dangers.”

Epworth did not answer. He was looking down into a deep valley alive
with men, women and children—a valley heated by slow, spluttering
volcanic fires that came up out of the earth. While he was still
staring there came a muffled explosion, a humming noise, and there
flashed into the sky a streak of bright aluminum. It shot upward with
such swiftness that it was barely visible for a fraction of a second,
leaving behind a somewhat lurid trail that hung in the air for a
second and then disappeared.

“W-w-what was it?” Joan gasped.

Epworth gave no heed to the question. He was staring, open-mouthed at
the spot where the cylinder came from. He was still staring when it
seemed to him that the earth opened, and another flash of aluminum
shot into the sky, followed by a muffled explosion.

“W-what the Sam Hill?”

Epworth could get no farther. His astonishment choked him.




CHAPTER V

Down into the Den


Joan shook her glossy hair as Epworth sat up and looked around, and
twisted her eyebrows in a puzzled way.

“It came out of that round black tube buried in earth at the far side
of the valley; or, perhaps, it was one of the mysterious flying
machines that the newspapers talked about—like the one that captured
the Greyhound. You can readily see that this is the lair of the sky
bandits. There is the Greyhound.”

Epworth drew out his powerful field glasses. He never failed to carry
them with him. In fact, he had become so accustomed to searching the
earth for miles around as he flew over it that it had become as much
of a habit to carry binoculars as it was to wear his nose. His
observations corroborated Joan’s statement concerning the Greyhound.
In addition to that plane he saw a number of other machines that
belonged to the Atlantic-Pacific Airlines, Inc., and bags of saltpeter
piled indiscriminately around a large warehouse made of corrugated
iron.

But there were no indications of idleness in the camp. Even the women
and children were doing some kind of work, and the men—more than a
thousand of them—were rushing pell mell hither and yon, gathering up
large quantities of stuff, pushing it into containers, and piling the
containers systematically into cylinders at least two thousand feet
long.

“No, it was not an airship. It was one of those long aluminum
cylinders that are being loaded by the men at work. It was shot up
into the air by some kind of machinery. But why do they do it, and
where is the machinery?”

“In that hole in the ground,” Joan explained, as she glanced through
the binoculars. “There seems to be a round pit over there.”

“Well, we are going down there and find out what it all means. Very
likely the crews of all the airships stolen are down there. I am quite
sure that Billy Sand is there.”

“Going to walk right in, turn right around, and walk right out with
all the airships and the rescued crews?”

Her tone was quite sarcastic.

“I hardly think that we will work that fast but if we are not able to
sneak into that place and get the Greyhound there is very little hope
of ever returning to dear old Uncle Sam.”

“There are forty of the new-style airships,” she pointed out, “and it
would be easy for them to overtake the Greyhound.”

“We will have to risk something. We will never——”

He was stopped by a giant cylinder being catapulted out of one of the
dark tubes, and flashing away into space. They stood staring for
fifteen minutes, and another cylinder followed. Then the hum of the
machinery quieted down. Epworth drew out his watch. “It has been just
ninety minutes since the first cylinder was fired,” he asserted. “The
second the cylinder goes into space the men below get awful busy
loading another. They are—yes, I really believe that they are
systematically shooting something into space.”

“Are they crazy?” Joan looked around apprehensively. “I would rather
run into a nest of robbers than a camp of crazy people.”

“We will try to get down there, and get away without being seen.
Around the side of the cliff I see a place where it will be possible
to slip down without hurting ourselves, although it is steep.”

“I don’t like the looks of things down there,” his sister objected.
“Look at that ugly giant!”

She gave Epworth the field glasses, and pointed to a certain man. He
was a great giant, long-bearded, hairy, and powerful. He was viciously
whipping a smaller man while four men held the small man a prisoner
with his face to the wall of a big corrugated iron building.

“Slave drivers,” Epworth observed sharply, his mouth twitching
angrily. “I wonder if the little fellow can be Billy?”

Joan shuddered. She was thinking of the gallant young aviator flying
away into the night to give himself voluntarily into captivity for the
sake of the men who employed him—a captivity that at present looked as
if it was the most vicious of all tyranny.

“We’ve got to get away, and send help,” she whispered fiercely. “This
racket must be cleaned out if it takes the entire United States army.”

“The United States army cannot come into this country. It is foreign
soil. The easiest thing to do is to steal the plane.”

“I’ll venture there are a thousand eyes watching it.”

“You’d throw cold water on a fish,” Epworth grumbled. “But just the
same we shall make the attempt.”

At this moment a door in one of the large corrugated iron buildings
opened, an enormous cylinder was rolled out, twenty men got aboard,
and it shot up into the air with incredible rapidity.

“How would the Greyhound get away from an airship like that?”

Joan’s eyes fastened on the disappearing ship with intense
fascination.

“I do not see any propellers,” she added thoughtfully.

“It is a rocket plane, I previously described, the latest improvement
on the German idea of shooting an airship forward with liquid rockets.
However, let’s be moving.”

They ate from the lunch boxes that Epworth had hastily snatched up
when they jumped into the air, and with stealthy steps descended the
steep incline, hiding frequently behind the large boulders on the
hillside. Fortunately the men in the valley, or rather huge crater—for
it was patent that it had one time been a volcano and the fires were
only now simmering in spots—were busy and did not see them, and they
finally got safely behind the large hangar that protected twenty or
more of the big airships. Inside of the building the men at work were
talking in a strange language but when Epworth peeped around the
corner he discovered the coast to the Greyhound seemed clear.

Slipping from behind the hangar they darted across the open space, and
gained the protection of another building without being seen.
Repeating this maneuver several times they finally came up to several
of the American planes. But they had been purposely battered. A wing
had been destroyed, an engine had been put out of running, the
propeller had been broken, or the fuselage and rudders shot to pieces.
The Greyhound had not been in camp long, and seemed to be in working
condition. They centered their attention on it.

First Epworth surveyed the field. The crater pit was swarming with
men, and weaving in between them were hundreds of women and children.
Obviously it was some kind of a colony, and Epworth caught himself
wondering what all these people meant by coming this far from
civilization to live.

Some distance away the young man saw a body of American aviators. They
were shoveling saltpeter into an enormous vat, and were being herded
around by heavily armed guards. Frequently a heavy whip was used on
the back of a prisoner to expedite his movements.

When Epworth saw this he realized that it would not be long before the
Greyhound would be dismantled. The pirates did not intend to give the
prisoners a chance to escape.

Again he gave the Greyhound a careful study. It was guarded by four
men who were seated on a boulder on the side of the mountain opposite
from his possible approach. He and Joan would have to get to the
Greyhound, get in it, rev up, and get away with a swiftness that was
almost an impossibility.

Still it was their only chance. He would make a stagger at gaining his
liberty. If they remained in this crater it would be only a matter of
a short time before they would be discovered.

To make the break Joan must go also, and it would be hard to slip into
the plane without one of them being seen.

“Concealment is useless,” he asserted. “We must run for it. When you
get there jump in, and if we are attacked I will try to hold them off
while you start the engine.”

Fleet as swallows the two darted forward. Epworth, an all-round
athlete, timed his speed to keep even with the girl. They got to the
door, Joan’s hand was on it, when the four guards ran around the
plane, gave a shout and closed in on them.

“Jump in!” Epworth urged. “Snap at it. I will hold them.”

He whirled like a lion, dodged, and caught the leading guard a heavy
blow in the stomach. The man doubled up with a grunt, and Epworth,
foot-working swiftly and dodging with the expertness of a prize
fighter, evaded a rush by two men, and caught the fourth a right hand
body blow on the run. His victim toppled over sideways.

Not for a second did he pause. He was fighting for life. These men
were unscrupulous robbers. He knew this by the way in which they
destroyed airplanes. They would not hesitate to slug him, and make
Joan’s future life miserable.

Wheeling fiercely he flung himself on the other two men. This time he
made a football rush, jerked a man’s legs from under him, and crashed
his head against the ground. Before the other man could catch him he
bounded to his feet, and struck him a vicious blow under the chin. The
man toppled like a tenpin.

All this time the man he had punched in the stomach was doubled up
groaning. Now he lifted his head, and straightened up. But before he
could advance Epworth bounced forward, leaped into the open door of
the Greyhound, and dropped into the aviator’s seat, panting from his
violent exertion.

The next second the Greyhound was spluttering loudly and taxying
across the rocky ground. If the engine would pick up a little safety
was in sight.

It did. After popping loudly for several seconds it purred down and
the Greyhound lifted its wheels from the ground.

At this moment a huge giant stepped out of the most pretentious house
in the place. In his hand he held a light machine gun. Leveling it at
the Greyhound he began to shoot. There were three propellers, and one
by one, with uncanny aim, the giant disabled the blades and just as
escape seemed at hand the airship staggered, slumped like a wounded
bird, and struck the ground with powerful impact.

Joan, seeing inevitable fall, braced herself with her feet, and
escaped with a slight jar.

Epworth, in a vain attempt to lift the nose of the ship upward, was
hurled against the cowling with a force that knocked him unconscious.




CHAPTER VI

A Dangerous Scientist


Julian Epworth returned to consciousness on a luxurious day bed in a
pleasant plastered room tinted a light green. For several moments he
did not comprehend. Presently he put his hand up to his head, and
found a bandage.

“Just what happened?” he asked curiously, not expecting a reply.

“Take it calmly,” Joan advised. She was sitting by him in a dejected
attitude. “We’re prisoners, and——”

“Where are we?” he demanded impatiently.

She placed her finger on her lips, and pointed at an open door. The
only thing the young man could see through the door was another
plastered room tinted blue, and a radio receiving set.

“This is KFI, Los Angeles, California,” he heard come over the radio.
“We are now going to hear from Professor Ainslee, the distinguished
astronomer of Mount Wilson Observatory. He is going to tell you
something about the things that are going on in the moon.”

There was a brief delay, and then Prof. Ainslee’s well-known voice
came over the air.

“Greetings, ladies and gentlemen of Radio Land: Continuing my short
talks about the marvelous growth on our satellite, I will state that
the newly discovered lake in the extreme western part of the Sea of
Vapours is rapidly getting larger. I should say that it is about a
mile in diameter at this time. Of course it cannot be water as water
cannot exist on the moon. The heat of the sun, shining steadily for
fourteen days, would dry it up as there is no air on the moon to give
the water protection. As all readers are aware air forms a blanket
over water, and prevents its gradual evaporation. But there is
certainly a dark spot at the point indicated, and the scientific world
is studying it thoughtfully. The spectroscopic investigation states
absolutely that it is water. This increases the mystery.”

“Ah, ha,” a shrill voice broke out in the adjoining room, “I, the
greatest and mightiest scientist in the world, am the only man who can
answer this mystery. Bring in the prisoners, Kosloff, and let them
hear the rest of this astronomical lecture. Perhaps they may be
interested to discover how ignorant their scientists are.”

The speaker had hardly finished when the door was pushed open, and
four men sprang into the green-tinted room, covering Epworth and Joan
with their guns.

“Come,” one of the men commanded in broken English, “the general
wishes to speak to you.”

Epworth got up from the bed, and followed by Joan passed through the
door guarded by the gunmen. Their captors stopped them in front of a
large mahogany desk. Seated behind this desk was an enormous giant.
Epworth instantly recognized him as the man who had prevented the
get-away in the Greyhound with a machine gun.

The giant stood up and made an elaborate bow, drawing his immense
height erect. He was fully eight feet tall, and extended an arm almost
as large as Joan’s body. Epworth weighed 160 pounds, and mentally
compared his weight with the appearance of the giant. He was willing
to wager that the giant would weigh 350 pounds, and that there was not
an ounce of surplus fat about the man’s red-haired body. He thought of
red hair all over the man because the giant’s shirt was open at the
throat and a huge mat of red hair was visible. In addition to this he
had a mass of tousled red hair on his head and a long red beard, which
came almost to his waist. He was, in fact, a Man Mountain Dean, beard
and all.

He smiled at Epworth and Joan, and they thought of horse teeth, and
the nose of Cyrano de Bergerac.

As Joan stepped in front of him he leaned forward, and gave her a hard
stare out of his small, twinkling pale blue eyes. At first there was a
slight pucker of puzzlement around his big mouth. Then he spoke in
good English in a small shrill voice. His voice was so small and sharp
that it was all Joan could do to keep from laughing. Epworth saw that
she was about to smile, and punched her lightly in the side, shaking
his head vigorously in the negative.

“It will never do to laugh at him,” he whispered out of the corner of
his mouth. “Our lives are in his hands.”

“Ah, ha! The beautiful Miss Joan Epworth, flying sister of the noted
air man, Julian Epworth,” the giant exclaimed. “I think that she walks
like a fly into our trap.”

He opened a drawer in the mahogany table and pulled out a Los Angeles
magazine. Opening the magazine at a certain page he whirled the sheet
around so that she could see. Then he stared at her again. Joan shrank
back from that stare. There was something dangerous about it that she
could not understand.

But she understood the picture in the magazine. It was her own
picture.

“My lady,” continued the giant with distinguished courtesy of speech
but with a sarcastic stare in his eyes, “that magazine is a year old.
I have been keeping it for a purpose. I planned in the near future to
visit Los Angeles with one of my fastest airships, and kidnap you.
That picture told me that you were a very charming and fascinating
young lady. Now that I see you I realize that the magazine did not
tell half of the truth.”

“Just what do you mean by that speech?” Epworth demanded sharply. “I
will have you to understand this girl is my sister, and is not to be
hurt or insulted.”

“I am not going to hurt her. I wouldn’t hurt her for a million
dollars. All I am going to do is to make her my wife. We are a little
short of women up here in the colony, and I have known for a year that
she would fit in admirably.”

“Marry you, you red-haired brute?” Joan cried passionately. “I shall
never marry you. Besides I do not want a husband. I am just a school
girl. I will not be thinking of marrying for ten years.”

“You are old enough—quite old enough. I like them young. But you will
have to be satisfied with a rather crude ceremony. We go very little
on ceremonies here, especially religious ceremonies. There are no
priests here, no churches here, no god to solemnize a marriage. I am
the only god here, but believe me I am a big one. I make and unmake
worlds.”

“You will never call this girl wife,” Epworth said softly. “Not as
long as I live.”

“Then you would fight for her? Fine.” He paused and looked at them
with narrowing eyes. “But I am forgetting the astronomical lecture. I
am the man who is doing things with the moon. I am transforming that
satellite, which is a boiling caldron for fourteen days and then a
freezing Arctic Ocean for fourteen days, into a pleasant place to
live. It will be a place where I can take my sweet comrades, and
establish a colony which will not be annoyed by world dictators or
tyrannical democracies.”

He paused and drew his hand across his huge mouth, exposing his horse
teeth as his hand left his face. The act proved so repulsive to Joan
that she turned her head. The giant noted this and frowned. The frown
was not pleasant to behold.

“The moon you are aware has for untold centuries been a dead planet,”
he continued without rebuking the girl but with a sinister contortion
of his under lip. “The scientists tell us that there is no atmosphere
there; no plant life; no water; and that men cannot live there even if
they could go there. I am fixing that all up, working the moon over so
that we will find life quite pleasant when we go there. I am sending
rocket projectiles loaded with water from the Arctic Ocean to the
moon. A projectile leaves here loaded with ice; immediately behind it
goes another projectile carrying liquid air, hydrogen and oxygen. Both
projectiles hit in the same spot on the moon, and the liquid air
explodes and forms a protecting velvet for the ice water when it
melts.”

He paused, and began to laugh, his sides shaking up and down
ludicrously. Again Joan had to turn her head; again he eyed her
savagely without saying anything for a second. When he spoke there was
a threat in his voice.

“When you are my wife you’re going to have to watch your
risibilities,” he said gently. “But to proceed. We delay—spread out
too much for your small minds. Taking cognizance of my projectiles,
you see the beginning to the Lake of Vapours. Fearing that there may
be no nitrogen on the moon I am sending frequent projectiles loaded
with saltpeter to unite with the supposed volcanic soils, and make
vegetable life possible. In addition I am sending all kinds of
seeds—vegetable seeds, flower seeds, fruit tree seeds, cereal seeds.
They go mixed with commercial fertilizer liquidized.”

“And you get the saltpeter and fertilizer from——”

The giant did not wait for Epworth to finish his sentence.

“Various and sundry plants in the United States—from Ford, Dupont,
etc. The wholesale robberies you were about to speak of are not what
one would call stealing. We need these things to start a great
civilization on another planet. Your people have them. Unfortunately
we have not the money to buy all we need; and consequently we are
forced to adopt the methods of other nations. We take them.”

“And you think that this crazy idea is going to work?”

“Ha, ha! Do you know who I am?”

Without realizing that she was speaking to the man Joan shook her
head.

“I am Herman Toplinsky, the greatest scientist in the world. I have
been run out of my home country because I am too smart for the other
scientists. I am being hunted like a wild animal by all the
governments of the earth. This is why I am hiding in this remote place
with my comrades, and using my airships to get chemicals, supplies,
gold, and all the things I need. Am I a bandit? Nay, nay. I am simply
a wronged scientist—a smart man without a country. I cannot help the
antagonisms of rude and ignorant men.”

Epworth had heard of the man. He was no idle boaster. Before he had
been chased out of his home country he had stood at the head of
International Science.

The scientist turned his eyes on Joan. She had her fingers pressed on
her nose, and could not remove them before he discovered her act. He
smiled, and sprang nimbly forward.

“What you smell is my chemical laboratory,” he explained. “It is in
here.” He threw open a door. The scent that came from the inner room
caused the girl to draw back quickly. “I have just removed my hands
from a vat of NH₃.”

It was the smell of rotten eggs accentuated a hundred times, and
Epworth now knew that what had been so repulsive to his nostrils since
he had been in the room was hydrogen mixed with sulphur and nitrogen.




CHAPTER VII

Ready to Crush Out Life


The guards, at a motion from the giant, pushed the prisoners inside of
the laboratory. Toplinsky shot his eyes around the room for a second,
and then bounded forward with energetic fury across the floor to where
ten men were working as if death was just ahead of them.

With a light slap of his big hand he turned a man upside down, and
rolled him across the floor.

“That for your ignorance,” he shrilled. “Have not I, the great Herman
Toplinsky, repeatedly told you nitrogen is an inert element—that it
does not care to unite with other elements, and that we must be very
careful at the beginning if we want to live when we get to the moon?
We cannot wait until we can grow vegetables. We must have nitrogen
free for the atmosphere, and we must also have it _fixed_ so that we
can charge the new atmosphere with electric currents and cause it to
rain on the face of the moon. Yes, I, the great Toplinsky, tell you
all these things, and yet you attend to this apparatus slothfully—you
do not complete the electric arc; you do not hook three hydrogen atoms
to one of nitrogen. Ah, ha! Do I not tell you again, and again, that
as condensed ammonia we shoot it easily into the moon, and that when
it releases it becomes again hydrogen and nitrogen?”

He kicked the prostrate form of the unfortunate worker, who was an
American aviator, and turned amiably to Joan and Epworth, all traces
of anger disappearing. Epworth and his sister looked at each other in
a puzzled way. Was the giant crazy? The idea of shooting hydrogen and
nitrogen at the moon in small packages indicated that he was.

“My friends, it is so.” Toplinsky smiled amiably. He was pleased with
the impression he was making. “I, the great Toplinsky, do more than
shoot packages of NH₃ to the moon. I shoot everything I need, and
soon—well, we shall see what we shall see. In the meantime——”

He bowed like a diplomat to Epworth. The young American caught the
intent.

“Did I understand you to say that you objected so violently to my
marrying this young maiden that you were ready to fight for her?”

Epworth shivered slightly. This was the biggest man he had ever seen—a
man as strong as Samson. If he went into a fight with him it would be
a very desperate affair. He glanced at Joan. She was looking at the
giant with a loathing that she did not attempt to disguise, and she
was his sister.

“Yes, I am ready to fight for my sister. She shall marry when she
pleases, and the man she wants.”

Joan gave him a look of intense gratitude. She had great confidence in
her brother’s fighting ability.

Toplinsky turned away as if the matter was of no more interest, and
passed out of the house. As he walked from the big building he waved
his hand in an explanatory way at two giant tubes buried in the
ground.

“Beneath these two tubes,” he remarked casually, “I have a powerful
power plant, and much complicated machinery. With the electric current
generated by the ebb and flow of the Arctic Ocean I load the cylinders
with heavy blocks of ice, and then give the projectiles a start into
space. Lean heavily, my dear bantam, lean heavily on this point. The
projectile I shoot leaves the earth at a speed of 6.77 miles per
second; that speed carries it beyond the gravity clutch of the earth.
When it gets a certain distance, in order to land it at a certain spot
on the moon, its speed is accelerated by the explosion of a liquid
rocket, fired by clock work. It is easy when you know how.”

“Mercy!” Joan ejaculated in admiration. “Why do you shoot so
accurately? Why not scatter your stuff all over the moon?”

“It would be wasted,” he responded mildly. “I am working on the same
plan one acts when he builds a dam in a flowing stream. Little by
little I build outward, making the territory around the point I have
selected inhabitable. In fact, in addition to creating vegetation on
the moon, I am preparing a livable climate where I anticipate
establishing my colony. I am doing this—first, by locating my site in
a deep valley between two high ranges of mountains. Here my lake and
vegetation are established in a spot where the sun shines one day out
of the twenty-eight, and then not with great heat. The rest of the
time the colony will be shaded from the sun by the high mountains, and
yet the valley will have ample light. For heat during the long
fourteen days of night I expect to erect a solar heater on the top of
the mountains, and reflect the rays of the sun into Paradise Valley
with big mirrors. But let us hasten to the conflict. I have not had a
real good fight since I was a boy.”

Joan’s spirits dropped. The giant had been acting so indifferently
that she had come to the conclusion that he had been bluffing about
wanting to fight her brother, and that he was simply trying to annoy
her with his talk about marrying her. Now she discovered that she was
mistaken.

She had not seen Toplinsky give a command but as they approached the
large hangar it seemed as if the entire population had assembled for a
celebration. Against the walls of the hangar had been placed a table,
a space had been roped off in front of the table, and a temporary
arena made. Toplinsky mounted the table, and addressed the crowd.

“Do you see this lovely maiden?” he shrilled out in his small voice.
“I think that she will make an excellent mate for your leader. But
notwithstanding the fact that I want her there is a ruling among us
that a man can keep his wife just as long as he is able to do so by
main strength,—provided some other man wants her. Unfortunately for me
this lady has a brother, and he is not willing to allow me to take her
for wife. But——”

He paused and looked down thoughtfully.

“Really, I had forgotten something. I might buy the lady. Mr. Epworth,
I will give you twenty thousand dollars for your permission as
guardian to make this girl my wife.”

Epworth looked at the giant apprehensively, saw that he was soft, and
shook his head decidedly.

“He seems uppish about it,” the giant grinned. “Very well, I shall
_kill him with these great bare hands_! I have said. It shall be an
open fight, and no favors.”

He threw off a long robe, and dropped to the ground. Epworth was
surprised to see that he was clothed in tights, and that his massive
chest swelled out like a steam engine expansion.

The colonists gave a wild cheer. It was plain that they liked a
spectacular scrimmage.

“Bring in the girl and set her on the table,” Toplinsky cried, “and
then put fighting clothes on this Lilliputian.”

Joan was seated on the table in great state while the guards with rare
good humor took Epworth into the hangar and forced him to don tights.
When the young American came back to the arena and confronted
Toplinsky it was in reality a contest between a Lilliputian and a
giant, although Epworth’s figure was beautifully shaped, symmetrical,
smooth, and well muscled for his age.

When the American prisoners saw the difference in weight they groaned.
Joan heard the groan and paled. If Epworth was defeated she would take
the first possible chance to commit suicide. Life with the giant
monster was nauseating, horrifying. She thought that she preferred
death a hundred times. When Epworth passed in front of the table on
which she was seated as if on a throne her heart went cold. The hairy
giant would crush him with ease, and there would be no help for him.
Those mighty hands would clench around the boy’s neck, and he would
never utter a sound until choked to death.

Toplinsky meant to kill him. She did not have to be told. Intuitively
she recognized the fact that beneath the giant’s sarcastic talk and
extravagant boasting there was a great hatred of Epworth. True she had
not seen the big scientist before this but he had kept her picture for
a year; had thumb-marked it until it was black with grime and dirt.
She groaned inwardly. This came of too much publicity. How she hated
herself for letting that reporter get her picture in his magazine.
Vanity—how she hated her vanity now that it was going to cost her the
life of the only companion she could trust.

“Ah, he is a bantam, a mere child!” There was a smirk of satisfaction
on Toplinsky’s face. “Yet he has the temerity to stand up in front of
me—the great Toplinsky. Friends, comrades,” he made a grandiloquent
flourish with his hand, “it is not often that I diverge but when I do
it becomes great sport. And this young lady—now hear me. I want her
badly but if this bantam wins he shall have her. What I have said I
have said. The great Toplinsky never goes back on his word. So shall
it be. Herloff, announce the approach.”

A bugle sounded, a drum beat musically, a guard jabbered in a strange
language; then in broken English he turned to the American prisoners.

“When this fight is over,” he said coldly, “this young American will
be dead.”

The calm statement, authoritatively made, caused Joan to scream.

“Now, young sir, be on your guard. This is a fight regardless of
Marquis of Queensbury rules.”

Epworth was considerably astonished at the agile rapidity with which
the giant sprang forward. His movements were graceful and as lithe as
a panther. But the American was ready for him. He had been taught
boxing and wrestling by skilled men. He waited like a post until Billy
Sand, watching with feverish excitement, shouted:

“Snap into it, kid. For the love of Mike, snap into it! You’re
fighting for your life!”

Still he waited until the giant was at his elbow; then he dodged with
seeming lack of haste beneath Toplinsky’s extended arms, and planted a
heavy jab into the man’s stomach. Then he turned his eyes on Billy,
and nodded. He was pleased to see Billy still alive.

But Toplinsky’s stomach was cast iron and copper bottomed, and just a
slight hesitation flickered across his face. Epworth paled slightly.
He had to subdue this man by constant, steady, repeated body blows. To
strike him on the head, was like butting into a brick wall with his
fist, and the first blow indicated that the soft portions of
Toplinsky’s body were as hard as his head.

Toplinsky whirled like an automaton, and rushed with clenched hands.
If he landed his blow Epworth would be knocked cold. But it seemed as
if Epworth did not see his danger.

“Hey, kid!” Billy howled. “Look out for that John L. rush.”

Billy’s voice was instantly checked by a guard who put his hand over
his mouth and jabbed a gun into his side. Epworth, however, caught the
feeling of sympathy, and waved his hand. It did him good to know that
Billy was at hand to cheer him.

But he did not need the warning.

His footwork was smooth, and the giant pounded air. Again Epworth’s
right found lodging in the giant’s abdomen, and he grunted a little,
faintly, and advanced with fists on guard.

It was evident that he knew a little about boxing, and Epworth’s heart
weakened. He had been counting on Toplinsky’s ignorance. If the man
was only partially skilled his great weight, long reach, and massive
power gave him the decided advantage. Yet the young American, though a
little doubtful, had no intention of permitting fear to gain
possession of him. Fear, he knew, would result in quick defeat.

He sprang forward like a catapult, dodged downward just as the giant
met him with a terrific blow at his face, and got in two good blows
before Toplinsky could regain his equilibrium. Then with deft footwork
he slipped beneath the giant’s arms, battered him in the rear of his
short ribs, and darted out of reach.

“Atta boy! At——”

But again Billy’s mouth was choked off.

Toplinsky did not speak. Very quietly he paused, and studied his
opponent attentively. It was a menacing, cruel, determined gaze. Joan
caught his facial expression and suppressed a cry of terror. She was
beginning to think that Epworth was a great fighter for one so small
and that he might whip this enormous beast but that if he did
Toplinsky would break his promise, and be more terrifying in defeat
than in victory. His cruel red face expressed this thought. She
shuddered, and glanced helplessly at the colonists who were backing
Toplinsky. They were grim visaged and fierce, and there was small
promise of help in that mass of intent, unsympathetic faces.

Her thoughts were broken by Epworth. The American made a dash as if he
intended to strike the giant in the face. Toplinsky covered and shot
his hands up in front of his face. Instantly Epworth stopped his rush,
and kicked his opponent with all the force of his leg and foot in the
pit of the stomach. The giant doubled up with a groan, and instantly
Epworth sent a mighty right hand blow to the back of his neck.

Toplinsky went down, his followers groaned, and the Americans sent up
a shout of triumph.

It was short-lived. The giant in falling threw out his right and
encircled Epworth’s neck. When he got to his feet with his hands
around the American’s neck he gave a ferocious grin, and stuck his
face, streaming with blood, against Epworth, at the same time jabbing
the American with his left. Epworth retaliated with a short hand jab
into the scientist’s stomach. Again the giant’s mighty left landed in
the American’s face. If he could not soon break loose from the
terrific embrace around the neck his face would be pounded to a jelly.

Bending his head he lifted his feet, permitting the giant to sustain
his weight for a fraction of moment, and doubling up slammed both feet
with all of his strength into Toplinsky’s abdomen. In order to sustain
his footing the giant held him up, and then slammed his terrible left
on his nose. The blood spurted out like a pump working but in
regaining his equilibrium Toplinsky slightly relieved the strangle
hold around the American’s neck. Taking the blow in his face, quick as
thought Epworth struck back with all of his strength, landing beneath
the giant’s chin. He had his mouth open at the time, and his tongue
was caught between his teeth.

It was not a severe blow but it caused Toplinsky to bite his tongue.
The pain was so severe that for a second he released his grip around
Epworth’s neck. Epworth slid out of the clinch, and feeble-footed
aside. He was sick and groggy from that awful left hand, and yet he
realized that if the man had been hammering him with his right instead
of his left the fight would have ended quickly.

Toplinsky, recognizing his advantage, rushed him, giving him no time
to recover from the shock of the clinch. Unable to strike Epworth
dodged. In this he was far superior to his enemy. Now he darted right
and left, and remained out of reach of those mighty arms. Thus he
began to regain his breath.

“Keep away from him, kid,” Billy howled. “Don’t try any more stunts.
Give him shots in the stomach.”

Epworth kept away for a time but he couldn’t knock a man out running
from him, and when he recovered somewhat he wheeled as if to run into
the giant, who was chasing him around in a circle. Toplinsky stopped
to throw up his guard, and envelop the American again with his great
arms. He failed. Epworth shot in two punches, and got away, although
he was sighing for a gong to sound to end a round.

But this was not a battle by rounds, and now a scheme entered his mind
to tire out the giant. Still dizzy and with his eye closing he began
to invite the giant to chase him. Toplinsky, foolishly thinking that
he was weakening, made repeated rushes. Epworth avoided them as if
weary and lacking energy.

The scientist’s admirers now sent up a whoop of triumph. It looked as
if the American was whipped.

Toplinsky chased until he began to blow slightly. This was what
Epworth was waiting for. Wheeling, while seeming to run away, he
charged into Toplinsky’s face. To the observer it looked as if he was
running into certain destruction. Billy was the first to groan; his
fellow countrymen followed. The colonists cheered.

Toplinsky smiled, showing his horse teeth in pleasant good humor. He
would catch this young American by the nape of the neck and crush the
life out of him. First, however, he would cover his face and protect
himself from the American’s blow.

It was a terrible mistake. Never before had Epworth driven a body blow
with such terrific force. He put all of his strength and the full
weight of his body, and landed in the giant’s stomach.

To the great astonishment of the observers Toplinsky staggered, and
before he could regain his footing Epworth landed another under his
chin, a fierce swipe. The last blow rolled the giant over. But he was
down for only a second. In getting up he ran into some angry punches
below the belt. They made him sick, weakened him, but he struck the
American angrily in the face, peeling the skin from beneath Epworth’s
eyes, and staggering him. Again the American got in his fast footwork,
backed away, and returned with another rush into the giant’s stomach.

Strong as he was this rush doubled Toplinsky again, and before he
could straighten up Epworth was hammering him from the left side below
the belt. With a mighty effort the giant closed his eyes to the pain,
and jabbed with all of his strength. Epworth caught the blow on his
chest, and struck the ground on his back. Behind it there was enough
power to knock down a horse.

With a shrill scream like a wild animal Toplinsky plunged at him.
Epworth had just enough energy to lift his foot and kick the rusher in
the stomach. The kick landed by accident in the exact spot where the
American’s fist had been hammering. Toplinsky stopped short, turned
white, and hunched over.

Hope swept again into Epworth’s heart, and with a bound he was on his
feet. Now he danced around Toplinsky like a bull fighter. Flashing in
and out, his swift blows were delivered into the unprotected part of
the giant’s anatomy, finding soft places. Twice he struck at the
giant’s face, closing both eyes. This however only served to give
Toplinsky some relief from his abdomen pains, and he rushed.

But Epworth was now going strong, and was wary.

He foot-worked, dodged in and out, and kept his enemy breathing hard.
Never for a second would he permit those giant hands to get to his
body or face. In and out, like a shadow, quick as a wink, he pounded
without getting anything in return, seeking the vulnerable spots.

With a sudden howl of anger Toplinsky dropped his guard, and sprang at
him. If he could just get his hands on this fleet-footed foe. If——

But he spent his energy in the rush, and Epworth was not there.
Instead he was delivering those aggravating blows at the solar plexus.
Toplinsky paused, whirled half around, and snarled like a wild animal.
It was an unfortunate thing for him to do. Epworth rushed him, sent a
powerful blow into the lower regions and before the giant could
straighten up, or attempt to defend himself he slammed him along the
side of his left ear, and rolled him over. It was the first time that
Toplinsky had been floored until he could not readily get to his feet.

Epworth saw his condition, and did not pause. Dropping on top of his
foe’s body, he pounded him on both sides of his abdomen with terrible
punches. He was getting a little weak himself, and realized that what
he did must be done quickly.

“Take him off!” Toplinsky gasped in terror. “Help! Quick, com——”

Epworth closed his mouth with a solar plexus blow that put him out.
Then he rose slowly and faced the arena. In front of him were over a
thousand frowning colonists, hard featured, cruel men, with guns in
their hands. They were eyeing him threateningly.

Joan saw the menacing glances, and cried out. She felt sure that these
maddened men would not do the fair thing by the brother who had fought
for her so gallantly—to the uttermost end of his strength. She also
feared for herself.

These men who did not hesitate to shoot down airships, and steal,
would shoot them later without mercy.




CHAPTER VIII

Billy Takes a Part


Six guards ran into the arena with a folding cot, and stretched
Toplinsky out comfortably on it. He groaned miserably, lay silent for
several moments, and then lifted his head on his elbow. In this
attitude he gazed threateningly at Epworth for several seconds without
speaking, his light blue eyes twinkling viciously.

“The woman is free,” he at last shrilled out. “I, the great Herman
Toplinsky have said, and it is so. But for him—that is another thing.
I have it. He has dodged about like a jack-in-the-box, he has run away
from me and would not fight where I could reach him with these strong
arms, he has pounded me in the softest parts of my anatomy when I
could not catch him. For that, ah, ha, he shall be whipped—whipped
until his back streams blood and he shouts aloud with pain, until his
head falls forward in a faint. Strap him up. I have said.”

With a deep groan he dropped back on the cot, lay on his back, for
several seconds, and then turned over so that he could view the
whipping.

“Oh, my! Oh, my! my stomach,” he half sobbed.

“How it hurts. Strap the rascal where I can see him wither and suffer.
I say that he shall suffer as I suffer.”

The six men jerked Epworth to a post in front of the giant and lashed
him face to the post, pulling down his tights so that his back was
exposed.

“Ah, ha, his back is smooth and white. I shall make it red and
striped, and then pour salt on it. Proceed, Kosloff, good comrade, and
spare not the rod.”

The man addressed as Kosloff, a big double-jointed man with a mean
countenance, seized a cat-o’-nine-tails, and began to whip Epworth
unmercifully on his back, each stroke cutting into the flesh and
leaving strips of red. Notwithstanding the fact that the pain was
excruciating Epworth clenched his teeth, and uttered not a sound.

“One, two, three, four, five, and fifteen,” roared the giant with
pleasure. “Make him howl if it takes two hundred. He’s a husky lad and
can stand a lot.”

“Hold! One more stroke and I’ll blow you to bits!”

Epworth twisted his head. He first caught a view of Joan with her face
buried in her hands, weeping hysterically; then his eyes flashed to
the rope, and he saw Billy standing inside with a gun frowning at
Kosloff. With a sudden dash he had grabbed a gun from one of the
guards and had covered the whipper before he could be stopped.

Kosloff stopped, and turned white. There was a note in the small
American’s voice that brooked no rebellion, and the gun pointed
menacingly.

“Go on,” Toplinsky snarled, “until I shout stop.”

“Let him have it, Billy,” twenty American throats shouted in unison.
“We are with you. Plug him between the eyes.”

“One more slash and he gets it,” Billy declared. “Go on, Kosloff, if
you have made your peace with God.”

“I’ll put you on bread and water,” Toplinsky threatened.

Kosloff held his whip undecidedly, and Billy stepped swiftly across
the intervening space and jabbed the gun against Toplinsky’s head.

“You’ve got nerve, Toplinsky,” he said with grudging admiration, “but
you are too healthy to be in a hurry to die, and I’m telling you that
you are mighty near death at this moment. I have been thinking mean
about you for the last hour and a half, and there is now going to be a
reckoning between us.”

Toplinsky, whose strength was coming back, sat up.

“Ah, ha, slave, do you talk of an agreement with your master?”

“Say, Whiskers, if you think I’m a slave you’ve got another think
coming. Right now you have a lot of men behind you but I’m holding the
trump card. If you do not come to my terms, and agree quickly, this
gun is going off. After that—well, you will not be interested in what
happens next.”

The grimness in the young aviator’s voice spoke volumes. The vast
crowd listened in silence.

“Yes,” he continued, “you are going to give an order that sticks. You
are going to say that there will be no more whippings in this camp.”

“What else?” Toplinsky sneered.

“And no killings.”

Toplinsky made an effort to stand up.

“Sit down!” Billy thundered. “This agreement is going to reach a
conclusion before you get up.”

“I will agree that there will be no more whippings,” Toplinsky said
quietly, “provided the work is done industriously. But the guards will
shoot the first American who makes a break for liberty. I have said.”

“I will not be unreasonable,” Billy returned slowly. “We will not ask
for freedom at this time but we must have fair treatment.”

“I will go no further than modify the regulations concerning
whippings,” Toplinsky declared firmly. “What I have said I have said.
Turn your gun over to one of the guards.”

With a sarcastic bow Billy obeyed. The act surprised Joan. She thought
that Billy had the advantage, and should force their release. But
Billy had saved Epworth from death, and Epworth and all the Americans
were well pleased with the result.

“Arrest that man!” Toplinsky screamed the moment Billy was disarmed.
“Put them together in the stocks and throw mud at them.” When they
were bound together and their feet thrust through an old-fashioned
stock that was dragged out, Toplinsky added slyly: “It may be
puritanical but I imagine that by the time my babies get through
playing with you, whippings will appear somewhat less painful.”

The mud was full of small sharp gravel and when it began to strike
their faces it left red smears. When Joan saw this she sprang off the
table, ran across the open space to where the two boys were fastened,
and threw herself in front of them as a protection from the gravel.

“Drag the wench back to her room,” Toplinsky called out with a loud,
shrill laugh, “and hold her there in the window where she can see
without being able to interfere.”

Epworth and Billy were finally taken out of the stocks in an
unconscious condition.




CHAPTER IX

Start to the Moon


Kosloff came into Joan’s room, and surveyed her with sneering eyes.

“Get ready! Quick! There is no time to lose. You are going with us.”

“Going with you? Where?”

Joan felt a sudden depression creep over her. Was this man going to
separate her from her brother?

“Ask the general, or wait and find out. I have my instructions.”

With another sneer Kosloff turned to the door, paused, and looked
back, and added:

“I am coming back in less than half an hour for you.”

“I must get word to Julian or Billy,” Joan gasped. “Where can they be
taking me? Once separated from my friends my life will be a constant
misery.”

She paused in her cogitations, and began to tremble. What could be
ahead of her? She did not find out, and threw herself across her bed.
She was still lying with her head buried in the bedspread when Kosloff
returned. This time he was accompanied by several guards, who were
none too polite. They lifted the girl in their arms, and carried her
aboard a large airship. While they were taking her up a steel-like
ladder Joan had an opportunity to observe the machine carefully. It
was the biggest thing she had ever seen in the way of an aircraft,
being eight hundred yards long, three hundred feet wide. In shape it
was an elongated cylinder, and she knew enough about modern metal to
discover that it was made of beryllium—a wonderful new material
impervious to heat or cold. The walls were hollow, and heavily armored
so that it was proof against the strongest shells. The openings were
sliding doors with an inner door of glass. Thus, when the outer door
was closed, the entire ship seemed compactly built without an opening.
It was propelled by rockets fired from long metal tubes located in the
bow, in the stern, and on both sides.

With rude hands her captors shoved her through an open door and along
a narrow companionway to a small cabin daintily and charmingly
furnished. Here they threw her on the floor and departed, slamming the
door behind them. The second they were gone she sprang to her feet.
When she tested the door she found that it had locked so that it would
be impossible to break out of the cabin. Then she began a search for a
window. There was none, and she ran around and around the small
chamber like a frightened rat without getting anywhere.

Presently she began to beat the walls with her clenched hands. She did
not expect to gain anything by this but it gave vent to her feelings.
In the rear of the room she accidentally struck a small round knob
with her thumb. The blow caused a secret panel to slide back and
expose an opening about eight inches square. The opening was above her
head but she found a stool and climbed up on it.

Her eyes took in a large warehouse-like room full of boxes and
supplies piled from the floor to the ceiling, and extending three
hundred feet toward the rear of the airship. Her mental comment was to
the effect that it was a mammoth apartment, and that it held supplies
enough to care for an army for several months.

But the most interesting part of the room that confronted her were the
men who were loading the airship. There were only three people in the
warehouse department, and two of them were Julian Epworth and Billy
Sand. They were being herded around by a single guard who talked to
them amiably and in a friendly manner.

Fortunately as she looked through the opening they passed very near,
and the guard lagged.

“Julian! Billy!” she whispered softly. “I have been locked up in this
place. Can’t you get me out?”

Epworth heard her but for some time he could not locate her. When he
did, the guard was hurrying them away. Joan saw them disappear behind
some boxes, and imagining that they had not heard her, allowed despair
to fill her soul. With a deep moan she sank on a couch near by and
buried her face in her hands, leaving the panel open slightly but held
firm by the spring. She thought that she was deserted, and her eyes
filled with tears.

Epworth, however, had no idea of deserting her. The second he heard
her voice he knew that she was entrapped on the airship and that he
must devise some scheme to save her. With this end in view, he dragged
slowly back of the guard. Billy, noticing this, fell behind to talk to
him.

“Where do you suppose this ship is going?” Billy asked indolently as
he lowered his last burden to the floor. “She seems to be loading up
for a trip around the world.”

“Worse than that,” the guard called out in an undertone. “That mighty
scientist, Herman Toplinsky, is going to try to go to the moon, and,
unfortunately, I have been detailed to go with the crew.”

“Say, sonny,” Billy exclaimed enthusiastically, “that sounds good to
me. I don’t care if he never gets back. Snap up, Epworth. We may find
a chance to break away while he is speeding along the interplanetary
ways.”

“I’m thinking of going with him,” Epworth whispered. “He is kidnaping
Joan, and taking her with him.”

Billy gulped.

“How’d you find out?”

“Get a move on you, slow boys!” the guard called out. “It is about
time you were leaving the ship.”

As he spoke he turned his back carelessly on the two Americans.
Epworth glanced at Billy; Billy nodded his head. Both edged up softly
toward the guard.

“Out you go,” the guard shouted again. “Drop down and I will stay on
top until she starts.”

With two bounds Epworth and Billy were on him. He was attacked
unexpectedly and before he recovered the two had him on the floor of
the airship, and his own gun sticking in his face.

“Not a word!” Epworth hissed.

“Not even a squeak,” Billy added.

The guard grinned up into their faces. It was a good natured smile and
half disarmed them.

“I do not get the idea,” he said in a low voice. “Are you two
contemplating a trip to the moon as a pleasure jaunt? If you hold me
here ten minutes you will be on your way.”

“We couldn’t part with you, Michael,” Billy lisped. “No indeed. We
love you too well.”

“We have known you long enough, Michael,” Epworth explained, “to know
that you are a good sort, and I will tell you what we are doing. My
sister has been put aboard this airship, and is now a prisoner in the
room adjoining the wareroom. We are staying to see that she is not
mistreated.”

“Toplinsky is a dirty scrub,” Michael burst out, angrily “and his
people would not stand for this—not after he had given his word.
Anyway I am not going to stand for it. Let me up—I am with you. I’ll
drop aboard and leave here, and get together a bunch of men who will
force Toplinsky to leave the girl here. I am sure——”

The airship trembled from stem to stem, a muffled explosion was heard
on the outside; there came a sudden upward jerk, and then a smooth,
even motion of acceleration.

“Too late,” Michael groaned nervously. “We are off, and Toplinsky will
boss you for several years longer unless we are lost in space.” He
paused and added. “Do you know, Americans,” he spoke very plain
English, “that I have always thought that man was crazy. He may have
been hitting the moon with his cylinder projectiles but I’ve always
doubted it, and I don’t feel good starting out to explore space. It
gives me the shakes.”

“Were it not for the fact that my sister is aboard this plane I would
feel the same way,” Epworth said. “But with her future unsettled I am
not thinking of what is in front of me.”




CHAPTER X

Toplinsky Calls the Bluff


The two Americans released Michael, and when he got to his feet the
three stood gazing at each other in silence for several moments.
Presently the air began to get extremely cold.

“S-say, fellows,” Billy grated with his lips trembling, “I don’t like
this. If the weather continues like this much longer I’ll become a
little snowball.”

Michael bounded up and slammed the hatch down. The atmosphere became
slightly warmer.

“We can’t stay in here,” he asserted presently. “This part of the
airship is not connected with the oxygen tanks, and we must have air
to live.”

He again opened the hatch and looked out. Epworth crowded up to him.
Overhead was space, all around them was space, and they were traveling
at a speed that took their breath. When they searched for a view of
the earth it was not to be seen, as the body of the airship obscured
it.

“We will try to get out and get into the other part of the ship,”
Epworth suggested.

“And Toplinsky will land on me for letting you and your companion come
aboard.”

Michael closed the hatch part way.

“Besides,” he added, “how will you pass that first hatch opening. If
you will look but again you will see Toplinsky standing with his head
out and an air helmet over his head. For some reason he is on the look
out.”

This time he let the hatch down softly and closed it firmly.

“We will fix you up with Toplinsky,” Epworth proposed. “We will tie
you up, then go below and inform Toplinsky that we made you a
prisoner.”

“Sounds fine, but it won’t work. Toplinsky will give me a beating for
getting where you could put your hands on me.”

The three men put their heads together. It was now getting terribly
cold, and for the first time they discovered that breathing was
painful.

“We’ve got to do something—and do it quick,” Billy asserted anxiously.
“I’m getting——”

He collapsed. Michael extended his hand to help him, and also
stumbled.

Like lightning Epworth acted. Grasping Billy by the collar in one hand
and Michael in the other he pulled them up to the point in the
warehouse where the panel opened into the chamber Joan was occupying,
and drawing a box up put them in a position where they could get a
breath of air through the hole. It was only a breath but he had
reasoned that Toplinsky would not put his sister where she would die
for want of atmosphere, and now found that he had reasoned correctly.
They could barely thrust a portion of their faces toward the hole. It
was not large enough for all three to get air, and heroically he
pushed his companions forward.

               *       *       *       *       *

Joan, stretched on her couch sobbing, heard a tap on the panel that
separated her compartment from the storeroom. Curiously she got up and
pushed back the panel. In front of her was Billy’s face and the face
of a guard. Both were chattering with cold.

“O-open the panel full out,” Billy choked. “We are dying for want of
air.”

“Mercy!” Joan ejaculated with infinite relief. “I thought you had left
the airship. Where is Julian?”

Billy shoved his head aside from the blessed air hole and caught
Epworth. He was just in time to keep his companion from falling.

“Here he is,” he replied. “Get your face away from the panel so we can
all get a breath of that air. This compartment is shut off from the
air tanks and we will soon die if we get away from this hole.”

However all three men soon revived, and pulled boxes up to the air
panel to stand on.

“We can’t stand here all our lives,” Billy grumbled. “My legs are
getting tired already.”

“Open your door and call some one,” Epworth instructed.

“It is locked,” Joan replied. “I have——”

The door opened and Herman Toplinsky stepped in.

“Ah, ha, ho, ho, it is a great voyage—a magnificent start.” Toplinsky
closed the door carefully. “Indeed a wonderful trip is ahead of us. We
leave the earth at a speed of six hundred miles an hour with our
liquid rockets working admirably. Fair Joan, do you know where we are
going?”

Joan was breathless with the fear that Toplinsky would discover
Epworth and Billy at the panel, but when she replied her voice was
cold and hard. At least she could put this man in his place.

“I haven’t the least idea, and my name—well, my name is a good name
and I am not ashamed of it. It is Miss Joan Epworth to you, sir.”

“Ah ha, ho, ho, high hatty—somewhat ritzy. Well, Miss Joan, we are on
the way to the moon. By the time we get there I am of the opinion that
you will be pleased to hear me call you Joan. This is our initial
trip—the first out—and I could not forego myself the pleasure of
seeing your beautiful face during the journey. In fact I am crazy
about you. Presently—ah, ha, we shall see what we shall see.”

There was a treacherous threat in the words that caused the girl to
grow cold and hot by turns. The words meant more than death to her.

“And how about that agreement with me?”

Toplinsky, startled with surprise, looked up at the panel. Epworth was
gazing at him with blazing eyes over the blue barrel of a gun.

“Ah, ha, ho, ho.” The giant was not in the least disconcerted. “Our
bantam fighter—our fast foot runner. Now I wonder how you got in
there? But that is a matter of indifference. Long before we get to the
moon you will be frozen into an Eskimo pie. It suits me well. I think
that I shall move this young lady into another apartment, and seal
this one. We can get along very well this trip without this room. Of
course——.” He paused as if thinking deeply, and an ugly sneer appeared
on his mouth. “Yes, I really believe that such an act would prevent
any air from getting back into the store room.”

The cool, devilish ingenuity of the man was appalling.

“Y-y-you mean that you will let these men die in there for lack of
breathing air?”

Joan’s face was deathly white as she asked this question.

“I didn’t tell them to go in there,” the giant apologized with
asperity. “Probably they were trying to hitch-hike a ride with us,
thinking that we were going to some other part of the world, and got
caught in their own trap. Why should I trouble myself about them? If
they die I assure you that decomposition will not commence during the
trip to the moon. The frigid air will act like a refrigeration
process, and preserve their bodies from offensive smells. We can dump
them out when we get to the moon. Their carcasses will make good
fertilizer.”

“Toplinsky, I confess that I do not get you.” Epworth spoke calmly. “I
do not understand your actions concerning Joan. You gave me your word,
and I thought that your word would stick.”

“I do stick to my word,” Toplinsky shrilled in intense anger. “The man
who says that Herman Toplinsky is not a man of his word is a liar—a
double-dyed liar by the town clock.”

“And yet my sister is here—kidnaped.”

“Just so.” The giant smiled broadly. “Still I have not broken my word.
I did not promise you that I would not take her with me to the moon. I
did not tell you that I would cut her off my visiting list. On the
contrary I have seen to it that she was treated like a great lady. She
has been given every comfort, and I intend to see that she is treated
with distinguished courtesy on this trip.”

He showed his teeth aggravatingly.

“Sounds fishy but you are going to put that down in writing. You are
going to sign a written agreement that she shall not be harmed or
insulted, and you are going to agree that we can go along to see that
you keep your word. With me is my chum, Billy Sand, and the guard you
put over us. These two are also going with you. I will add, in justice
to the guard, that we knocked him down and took his gun away from him,
making him a prisoner.”

“Really, my dear fellow, I am seriously afflicted with writer’s
cramp.” Toplinsky spoke politely. “I cannot put such an agreement in
writing. It would be very painful to me to have to write it.”

“We may never leave this store room alive,” Epworth said
threateningly, and it was evident that he meant what he said, “but as
sure as fate if you do not put that agreement in writing I shall shoot
you. One explosion will be all that will be necessary.”

The giant did not seem to be frightened. Quite the contrary. He
replied very quietly.

“Quite a marksman, eh?” Toplinsky’s smile was sneeringly cold and
mocking. “Do you know what will happen if I am killed? I hope I may
not seem pedantic if I modestly explain. I am the only person aboard
the Aerolite who can pilot it back to the earth, or to the moon. If
you shoot me, all on board will be lost in space. It is hardly
necessary to inform you that the moon does not stand still. It is
moving now in three ways. First it is rotating once every sixteen
hours on its axis; second it is moving around the world once every
twenty-eight days; third it is traveling through space in a giant
circle with the earth around the sun, making the circle once in three
hundred and sixty-five days. Off-hand I would suggest that these three
statements alone, especially numbers two and three, present to you, an
expert air navigator, something of a problem in the way of making the
moon a landing spot.”

He paused and grinned broadly, seeing a look of dismay appear on the
American’s face.

“Yes,” he continued pleasantly and in an academic manner, “the moon
moves 0633 miles each second—double the velocity of a cannon ball, and
add to this the encircling movement of one thousand miles an hour
around the sun, we have a decided mathematical calculation in
navigation—especially as our little ship is at present only making six
hundred miles an hour. Perhaps, a little later on we may get up to
eight hundred. But, my dear fellow, do I see you, even at a speed of
eight hundred miles an hour, overtaking the moon? I pause for a
scientific response.”

Epworth was obviously upset, and his hand trembled on the trigger.

“Toplinsky, it is all I can do to keep from killing you this instant.”

“If you really wish to see your sister live——. Well to be just a
little slangy, you will draw in your horns. Kill me and you also kill
her and the crew.”

“And you will leave my brother and his companions in there without air
to breathe?” Joan demanded heatedly.

“My dear young lady, really, we have no air to spare.” Toplinsky
lifted the palms of his hands outward, and shook his head. “We
manufacture our air with chemicals, and the supply is limited. In
making my preparations to visit the moon I did not anticipate the
presence of guests in a compartment where no air is needed. Our air is
confined entirely to the living-parts of the ship. Yours is the last
compartment supplied with air. There is no sense in wasting air and
running machinery for fun.”

Again he opened his hands expansively, and showed his horse teeth
apologetically.

“And—and——”

“So there you are,” he finished.

Epworth lowered his gun.

“Toplinsky, you win. I cannot endanger the lives of all the people
aboard this airship.”

The giant grinned good humoredly. He had been very close to death, and
he realized that his escape had been narrow.

“Don’t kill them that way,” Joan moaned. “I shall not give you any
trouble. I——”

“Joan, that is enough!” Epworth hissed. “You are going to obey me, and
you are going to stay right in this room during the entire trip—stay
where I can keep my eyes on you.”

“Where you can keep your eyes on her, ha, ha!”

Toplinsky smiled crookedly.




CHAPTER XI

Tables Turned and No Eats


With a cautious movement that did not attract Toplinsky’s attention
Billy Sand touched Epworth on the shoulder.

“The hatches may be closed but not locked,” he suggested in a whisper.
“Perhaps we can get out on the top of the old crate, and find a way to
get inside of the airchambers.”

Epworth dropped down as silently as possible from the air hole. The
second he was away from the hole, Toplinsky popped up, and slammed the
panel shut.

“Ah, ha, my young cockerel,” they heard him exclaim exultantly, “I
guess that will fix you. I have not promised that I would save your
life when it was in jeopardy. True I have said that I would not kill
you. While this was under durance I shall stick up to it. However I am
not responsible for the temperature of space. You should have remained
where you belong.”

They heard him cackling shrilly but without pausing to hear more,
accompanied by Michael, who had informed them that his last name was
Strauss, they ran hurriedly to the hatch, pushing it open.

“Lady Luck,” Epworth exclaimed as he stepped out on the top of the
airship. “Not a living object in view, but——”

He was going to speak of the force of the wind but realized with
surprise that there was no wind. They were already beyond the earth’s
stratosphere.

They climbed out of the storeroom, dropped the hatch door into place,
and started to walk along the narrow runway over the top of the plane.
Epworth, who was in the lead, glanced outward.

Six hundred miles an hour, and no place to fall. In every direction
extended a dense black sky, lighted by gleaming balls of red that he
knew were stars and the sun—nothing above, nothing below, and on each
side endless ether. If they fell off this ship going with incredible
swiftness, where would they go? They were now too far away from the
earth to fall back on the terrestrial globe, and even if the gravital
drag of the earth grasped them they would be frozen stiff before they
got there, or shattered into fragments if they landed. It was a cold,
clammy, helpless feeling. Once off that ship they would go nowhere;
they would find death in endless space, where it is supposed to be
439° below zero.

Aside from this they realized that they had very few minutes to spare.
They must get below into the air chambers very quickly or perish with
cold, or in the rare atmospheric void.

All three were suddenly afflicted with vertigo, and began to reel
along dangerously near the edges of the little platform-run. Realizing
that this was certain destruction, they gained control of their
faculties by sheer force of will power, and holding their breath
dashed up to the first hatchway, and pulled at the ring.

It was locked on the inside, and therefore immovable.

For a second Epworth was appalled. Had Toplinsky beaten him to the
idea of escape? If so they were doomed. Already it was too late for
them to run back to the storeroom hatch opening. They were too far
spent to undertake it.

Had they simply jumped from one death to another in leaving the
storeroom? Epworth shivered at the thought—with cold as well as the
fear of death. For the first time he thought of his body floating
through space, embalmed in ice.

Then gathering his courage he ran on to the next hatch opening. By
this time he had discovered that the openings in the top of the
airship were four in number and about equal distances apart.

Glory be! The hatch door was locked but a small, slender stairway ran
down the side of the ship to a side door. Like a monkey he flashed
down this stairway followed by his companions. They dropped onto a
small square platform, and Epworth caught the bright knob of the door.
If it was locked they were as good as dead men. They were still
holding their breath, and life hung by a hair.

He jerked at the door nervously. It slid open, and he darted in
instantly. As his companions came down the ladder he caught each
frantically and pulled him inside, closing the door.

With one motion the three opened their mouths, and gulped down the
living, warm air. They were all but gone, and it required several
seconds for them to recover.

They were treading softly down the narrow companionway when a door
opened and Toplinsky came out of Joan’s room.

“By this time,” he was saying, “that young brother of yours is dead,
and I am going to change your place of abode.”

He extended his hand to pull the girl out of the room.

“I’m not going. I’m going to stay here, and get that panel open so my
brother can get air.”

She jerked back, and the giant put forth some force to move her.

Epworth bounded forward with fierce anger, and before the giant could
turn brought the butt of his gun down on the giant’s head.

“Get inside, and lock the door,” he urged. “Make it snappy—before some
one else drifts along.”

“Not by myself,” Joan protested quickly, sensing that in some
miraculous manner Epworth and his friend had escaped death in the
storeroom. “You and Billy must come in also.”

“Michael Strauss, the guard who is with us, must also come.”

“Just as you say.”

“In with you, Billy.”

Billy and Michael entered the room while Epworth guarded Toplinsky
with his gun. Just as Michael disappeared Toplinsky came around. He
had been knocked a little silly but was not totally out—just enough to
permit Billy and Michael to get into Joan’s room without being
discovered.

“Not a move! Not a whimper!” Epworth thundered when he discovered that
Toplinsky was coming back to the world. “There is not going to be a
loud noise.”

“Ah, ha, so you would threaten again,” Toplinsky shouted. “Ho,
comrades, this way.”

The scientist was demonstrating that he was a man without fear.

Epworth did not wait for the guards to appear, and from natural kind
heartedness did not strike the giant with the gun. Instead he slipped
into Joan’s room, and slammed and locked the door.

“So far so good,” he murmured. “Now if they do not shut off the supply
of air.”

“If he does that,” Michael explained, “we can knock a hole in the
door, and get air from the outside. The ship is constructed so that
the air is always inside of the companionway.”

“Fine and dandy,” Billy grinned in high good humor. “We are all
dressed up and on our way.”

“On our way,” Joan interposed, “but while we are traveling what will
we eat? I am already hungry.”

The three Americans looked at each other in dismay.




CHAPTER XII

Toplinsky Grinned Slyly to Himself


Without speaking his thoughts, Michael stepped to the side of the
room, and shoved a hidden panel aside, exposing to the view of his
companions a small room containing a lavatory and supplies. Thrusting
a plug in the white bowl he turned on a faucet and filled the bowl
with water.

“I did that,” he explained, “as a precaution in case the general turns
the water supply off of this apartment. It would necessitate
considerable work and a general overhauling but it is possible to stop
the water. With this bowl full we will have enough to drink until we
get to the moon—provided, of course, Toplinsky gets there in the time
he has allowed for the trip. But as for eats I am afraid that we will
have to get outside occasionally. My brother is the cook, and if I
could get out to the kitchen we could get a supply of edibles without
Toplinsky getting much too wise.”

Epworth tiptoed to the door of the companionway, opened it slyly, and
peeped out. A guard was standing in front of the entrance with a gun
in his hand. Toplinsky had disappeared.

“We will be watched constantly,” he explained, as he closed the door
softly. “There is a man out there with a gun on the door.”

He spoke despondently.

“Not so bad,” Michael said thoughtfully. “Probably he does not know
that Michael Strauss is in bad with the general. If I step out there
he may think that I have been placed inside as a guard, and I can get
a chance to knock him out.”

Epworth gave this idea consideration for some time. Finally he smiled.

“Did Toplinsky know that you were guarding us in the storeroom?”

“If he did it was an accident. He seldom pays attention to such small
details. I was sent in by Kosloff.”

“Fine. I see how we can eel out of this. You can go out, and talk to
the guard. While you are talking Billy and I will slip out and help
you knock him out; then we will drag him in here, put him in the
closet, and you can take his place. Toplinsky will not know that there
has been a change of guards, and will think that he is the man we
knocked out in the beginning.”

“Sounds easy.”

Michael nonchalantly opened the door, and slid out into the
companionway. Immediately the guard threw a gun down on him.

“You can’t come out here,” the guard snarled in a surly way. “The
general instructed me to let no one pass.”

“I’m not trying to pass,” Michael protested carelessly, “but I’m fed
up with guarding that bunch inside. How would you like to exchange
places?”

“Not me. I’m staying where the general put me.”

Michael carelessly stepped up to the guard.

“Got a cigarette?”

“Cigarette.” The guard smacked his lips. “I’m crazy for one but you’ve
got your crust asking for one. The general says that we are liable to
blow up the ship, as it is full of hydrogen gas. In fact, if he should
catch you smoking I’d hate to be in your shoes.”

Michael leaned negligently against the wall, and the guard lowered his
gun and turned half around. He was startled by a noise at the door. He
whirled but was too late. Epworth and Billy landed on his back like a
pile of brick, and Epworth’s hand closed over his mouth and throat.

Struggling fiercely the guard dropped his gun. Michael picked it up
with a chuckle, and slammed him on the head. The blow partially
stunned him and Epworth and Billy dragged him into Joan’s room, and
with a bedspread stripped into cords bound him. The second they
released his throat he sent up a loud shout for help.

“Take it easy,” Epworth advised, shoving the gun against his side. “If
there is any talking to be done Michael will do it.”

Michael did. Toplinsky heard the shouts and came running. When he got
to Joan’s room he found Michael on the outside acting as the guard.

“What is the matter here?” the general demanded harshly.

Michael saluted.

“They must be killing our comrade in there,” he responded somewhat
indifferently. “He has been howling loud enough to raise the dead.”

“Why do you not look inside?”

“You told me to stay here, and let no one come out,” Michael answered
stupidly. “I’m doing it.”

“Pig! All of you are pigs,” Toplinsky blustered. “I meant, of course,
for you to exercise some judgment.”

The giant turned the door knob and pushed. The door was fastened
tightly on the inside with a bolt but he heard a loud sputtering that
Epworth choked off quickly.

“Shut up!” Epworth roared. “I’ll choke the life out of you.”

“What are you doing to my comrade in there?” Toplinsky demanded. “I——”

“Just choking him a little,” Epworth responded amiably. “Of course you
do not mind a little thing like that. It hasn’t been two hours since
you left him in the storeroom to die. However, if he obeys me he will
not be hurt. I am only making a good fellow out of him.”

“Ah, ha, let it be so.” Toplinsky turned away. “He deserves some
punishment for falling into your hands.”

“Shall we leave our comrade in there without anything to eat?” Michael
asked innocently.

Toplinsky stopped short.

“We will have to feed them,” he replied thoughtfully. “I could not
think of leaving him there without food—or the girl either. As for the
two Americans—well we cannot feed our comrade and the girl without
feeding them, so when the dinner hour arrives you may instruct the
cook to bring them something to eat.”

Michael saluted and turned his face away to grin. Toplinsky strode
away angrily. He would fix the two Americans, he promised himself—fix
them plenty—when he got to the moon. They were prisoners aboard the
Aerolite, and he would find some method of disposing of them if they
undertook to leave the ship.

He grinned slyly to himself.

But he would have to dispose of them carefully. It would not do to
break his promise. No indeed. He must stand by his promises or his men
would go back on him. He couldn’t afford to allow this.

His method of eliminating that upstart Epworth must necessarily be
unique. But he mentally promised himself that it would be certain.




CHAPTER XIII

The Landing


A sudden burst of light, stronger than the meridian sun, flashed into
Epworth’s face, causing him to jump excitedly.

“Holy smoke!” he exclaimed. “Is the ship on fire?”

“The general is throwing open all the windows,” Michael Strauss
replied from outside of the door. “We are approaching the moon. Come
out and peep through a windowpane. It is safe. The crew is busy at the
far end.”

Epworth slipped out of Joan’s cabin into the companionway. From where
Michael stood they could see out and downward. Far below him Epworth
saw a rounding world, full of deep pits, enormous craters, steep
mountains. For several moments he gazed at it in silence and awe, and
then his mind flashed back to a previous air ride he had taken. This
was almost exactly like flying over Mount Vesuvius.

He was still standing at the window gazing downward when Joan and
Billy joined him.

“That prisoner in there,” Billy observed. “What are we going to do
with him if we make a landing? From what I see we are about ready to
drop.”

They shot suddenly across a range of high mountains and came to a long
level stretch of shimmering white.

“If a landing is made we will have to tie him up and——”

Epworth had not completed his sentence when the Aerolite dropped
downward and landed as light as a feather. When he turned to look out
again he discovered that they were located on the peak of a high
mountain that sheered off almost straight down for ten thousand feet
to a long level stretch of land composed of brownish colored soil.
This stretch of land sloped gradually eastward. Remembering that east
was west and west was east on the moon, Epworth tried to establish the
point of landing from his knowledge of the surface of the moon as
outlined by Flammarion. The moon, he knew, was now full, and the
entire surface was flashed with sunlight—that is the portion that
faced the earth.

But, to his astonishment, they were not landing in the light of the
sun.

When the ship came to a stop and he was able to get a better view of
their surroundings he discovered that they were surrounded by a dim
reflected light that came from the east. On the west the darkness was
steadily deepening. While he was still watching the darkness in
wonder, the colonists began to pour out of the ship onto the moon.

They looked strange—not at all like men—and Epworth gasped slightly as
he recognized the fact that they were encased in air helmets, and wore
heavy iron shoes to maintain a balance on the light gravity of the
small globe.

The moment they landed the men began to unload sheets of metal
silvered into giant reflectors.

“W-w-what are they going to do?” Joan gasped in astonishment. “Why all
those sheets of silvered metal?”

“That Toplinsky is a deep man,” Michael responded in awe. “He has
never been on the moon before, but he has a great scheme to make it
inhabitable by men. That silvered metal, when completed, and erected,
will be his first moon mirror. If you notice it is to be erected on a
particular point of this mountain—just beyond the part visible from
the earth. For fourteen days the sun will be reflected directly toward
the earth, and then the rays will move further westward, finally
presenting only a dark sphere to the earth. This results, Toplinsky
says, in the establishment of a line on the moon which is always
lighted by the appearance of the sun in the distance. This line
travels into the sunlight and retains the light of the sun while the
face of the moon fronting the earth is dark. Thus, at a point only
several miles removed, when the sun disappears from the Sea of
Vapours, we will say, it touches the mountain system on the west and
remains there until the moon’s movements shift it back again.
Toplinsky’s scheme is simple. He intends to locate mirrors on that
line, catch the light of the sun as it disappears from the part facing
the earth, and reflect its heat down into the valley. With the heat
naturally will come the reflected light. In this manner he will build
solar heaters to overcome the cold and darkness of the long night.
Naturally he will locate his colony close to the mountain where it
will be near the solar heaters.”

Hardly had Michael finished his explanation when some of the colonists
re-entered the airship, and started the machinery. Again they lifted
in the air. But they were not up long. For ten minutes they sailed
over a dark line where the rocks showed beneath them rugged and
mountainous, and then they flitted like a long silent streak across
the line of darkness into a brilliant sunlight. Here Toplinsky dropped
the airship quickly to the ground, and presently they landed in a
small, narrow valley on the bank of a lake half a mile in diameter.

“That is some more of Toplinsky’s work,” Michael explained. “He made
that lake by shooting rockets filled with water from the Arctic Ocean.
The rockets also contained liquid air and enough hydrogen and oxygen
to protect the water from evaporation.”

Epworth sauntered down the companionway, and peeped out of the door.
The colonists were again leaving the ship, protected by their air
helmets.

“Does he expect to find hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and other elements
here?” Joan asked.

“He left orders for the men behind to continue to shoot the rockets
filled with chemicals at a certain spot, gradually drawing eastward so
as to enlarge the lake.”

“It is light enough here,” Epworth observed, “but I perceive that
Toplinsky has landed in a spot where the country is shaded for ten
miles by the high mountain on which he left his mirrors. That mountain
must be six miles high.”

“Another part of his colonizing scheme,” Michael explained. “He thinks
that if men can be protected from the rays of the sun the heat will
not be unbearable during the long day.”

“I see.” Epworth was considerably astonished at the giant’s scientific
ideas. “The shadow of the mountain will certainly moderate the heat,
but I am yet to be convinced that he can generate enough heat with his
mirrors and solar heaters to warm up the valley during the long
night.”

“Leave it to him. See that long strip of light?”

Michael pointed to a narrow slit of sunlight that suddenly shot down
from the top of the mountain. It came straight down like a ladder,
piercing the darkness of its source and dropping down in brilliant
coruscations on the rugged rocks on the west end of the little lake,
and sweeping swiftly over the level stretch of land between the
mountain and the lake. It brought brilliant light and heat.

“I’m for getting out of here,” Billy put in.

“Fine,” Epworth replied scathingly, “but how are you going to live out
there? The colonists are wearing air helmets, and that indicates to us
that if we undertake to leave the Aerolite we must find some way to
store oxygen over our own heads.”

“There are air helmets in the storeroom,” Michael suggested, “and an
oxygen tank in the cook room. Perhaps——”

But without waiting for a command from Epworth, he sped down the
companionway into the kitchen. When he came back he was carrying three
air helmets.

“Here you are,” he said energetically. “I found them hanging near the
kitchen oxygen tank, and of course filled them so that you can use
them.”

“But, how will we refill them after we exhaust the supply now
imprisoned in them?” Epworth protested. “I——”

“I brought along a recharger, and——”

“Even so, one recharge will not last us long.”

“Perhaps we may not need them after all,” Joan suggested. “The
colonists are taking them off their heads.”

Epworth opened the window cautiously and stuck his head out.

“There is atmosphere here,” he observed slowly, “but it is exceedingly
thin.”

“It is not half as thin as these air helmets promise to become,” Billy
snorted, “and I think I can explain it. The astronomers on the earth
cannot see deep into these craters. They see only the tops of the
mountains, and the atmosphere has done the same as it does on the
earth—sought the lower levels, being pressed down from above and
gathering density in the holes and caves.”

“That being the case right here we separate from Toplinsky,” Epworth
decided quickly. “If we wait he will put a watch over the ship, and
cut off our escape.”

“You say that Toplinsky has been shooting liquid air, oxygen, nitrogen
and hydrogen up here?”

Joan put the question to Michael as if she had just heard this, and
Epworth looked at her in surprise.

“Of course,” Epworth answered, taking the words out of Michael’s
mouth. “That has been gone over half a dozen times.”

“True, but a new idea has just struck me. Perhaps the liquid air and
all the other ingredients that make air, which Toplinsky shot up here,
made good breathing air when the explosions occurred and that enough
have been unloaded from the earth to create a small air circle at this
point.”

“Such atmosphere would be held down at this point by the pressure from
above,” Epworth agreed, “and remain in natural form.”

“If my theory proves true,” Joan continued, “we can breathe only when
we are near the lake.”

“Be that as it may, we will go out and see how we get along but be
sure to hold on to your air helmets.”

Locking the prisoner inside of the small cabin the three Americans
moved softly down the companionway toward the kitchen. On the way they
caught a glimpse of Toplinsky and his men standing in a circle, with
their air helmets in their hands, while several of the company were
turning up the soil with shovels for Toplinsky to examine. The
scientist was doing this carefully, and Epworth could not restrain a
thought of admiration. The man was certainly a thorough scientist, and
in his scheme to make the moon inhabitable he would be sure to plant
vegetation that would grow prolifically.

Michael had informed them that there was a companionway beyond the
kitchen which would lead them to the opposite side of the ship, and
they had been thoughtful enough to get instructions that would enable
them to locate it. When they arrived at the kitchen they found it
deserted, the entire outfit having rushed to see the landing, and with
very little trouble they gained the companionway. But when they came
to the door that opened out on the small balcony on the opposite side
they found it locked.

For several moments the two men were puzzled. Epworth fumbled at the
lock without result, and then Billy took his place. Billy, being a
mechanic of great ability, used the blade of his knife and after
working for some time forced the bolt back, and pulled the door
inward. With beating hearts they ran down the ladder and stepped upon
terra firma.

Here they paused for a brief consultation. They were hidden from
Toplinsky’s men by the airship but it was evident that if they escaped
they would have to run for it in the open. The nearest protection
consisted of a range of small mountains on the south. There were other
mountains on the north but these were too far away, although they were
taller and more promising as a hiding place. Both ranges appeared
rocky and rugged, treeless and desolate. In front of the Aerolite,
stretching as far as the eye could reach was a pitted desert of white
ashy sand dunes; behind the machine was the newly made lake which
rippled softly on a nearby beach; beyond this the mountain with the
solar heat.

“We will have to try the southern mountains,” Epworth said briefly,
“and run like scared rabbits. It is lucky, Joan, that you are wearing
short skirts.”

“Let us scatter,” Billy proposed, “and meet at that large rock which
is projecting over that lower mountain.”

“Not me,” Joan objected quickly. “I’m staying close to Julian. I might
need his strong right arm.”

“Then all together.”

They kept the Aerolite between them and their enemies as long as
possible, and then broke into a run.

Their attempt to run was at first ludicrous. Being used to the gravity
drag of the earth they put forward all their efforts in taking long
quick steps. Instead of steps these muscular movements proved to be
jumps, and they moved like Jack in the Magic Boots, covering about
thirty yards in a single step, and jerking their legs up ludicrously
when they took the next step. In fact, after getting off the ground it
took an effort to put their feet back.

Joan immediately tumbled over, laughing somewhat fearfully.

“This will not do,” she exclaimed anxiously, as she fell the second
time. “I can’t run. Let us walk.”

Epworth, the second step he took, discovered the situation, and was
moving in accordance with what he thought a moon action should be. It
was not perfect but it kept him from falling and was a rapid mode of
advance. He now stopped and gave them instructions in the way he
thought they should move. While he was doing this Toplinsky came
around the side of the Aerolite and discovered them. At the time they
were probably about twelve hundred feet distant.

“Ah, ha, they run,” he shrilled in that sharp voice they had learned
to dread. “Our guests are wearying of their entertainment. They would
leave us without bidding us farewell. Atta, boys, up and after them!”

He started on a big run for the Americans. Epworth expected to see him
fly up and turn over but the giant was too scientific-wise. He came on
with a hop-skip-and-jump that seemed to make him fairly skim over the
ground.

“A regular flying squirrel,” Billy grunted, “and dangerous as a
snake.”

Toplinsky landed in front of Epworth with a broad grin.

“Ah, ha, ho, ho, my bantam American pugilist, we meet again, and on
different footing. This time we shall fight in the same way, but with
different results. Then I shall be freed of my promise.”

He stared savagely for several seconds into the American’s face, and
then leaning forward, with his little eyes twinkling, he aimed an ugly
blow at Epworth’s head. The American attempted to dodge it but the
difference in the gravity pull made him clumsy and he half-floated to
one side, the blow striking him on the chest, spinning him around and
rolling him forty feet.

“Run, Joan,” he shouted. “Make for the mountains. I can’t fight here.
Billy will take care of you while I hold this great brute.”

He scrambled to his feet as Toplinsky tore down on him.

“Shall I shoot him?” Billy asked softly.

“And stay on the moon all the rest of your life?” Toplinsky shrilled.
“Shoot, will you? Shoot! I’m the only man who can take this expedition
back to the earth.”

He stopped, tore open his shirt and exposed his hairy chest.

“Run,” Epworth urged. “Keep your cartridges as long as possible. I
will attend to this gentleman.”

Without waiting to see what Billy did, Epworth squatted, sprang
forward, and threw his arms around Toplinsky’s legs, jerking at them
with all his strength. The result was exceedingly funny.

Toplinsky threw out both hands, waved them wildly, and attempted to
fasten himself down with his powerful leg muscles. But this time light
gravity aided the American, and he was able to shove the giant’s feet
from under him. For a second Toplinsky was a bundle of flying arms and
legs threshing the air and he fell in half a dozen directions. Joan,
looking back, laughed outright.

To be laughed at was the crudest punishment that could be inflicted on
the egotistical scientist. He let out a bellow like a bull, and made a
desperate, thoughtless effort to stand up. The effort proved a
contortion of muscles in the wrong way, and he sprawled in every
direction again.

There was now no mercy in Epworth’s battles with this man, and he was
not overlooking an opportunity. The first assault by the giant had
taught him caution, and now he moved slowly, thoughtfully. He was not
a man to draw a weapon carelessly on a man but he was fighting for the
lives of three people. He could not afford to be squeamish. This was
not like fighting on the earth. He was physically outclassed.

Drawing his gun he brought the butt down on Toplinsky’s head with all
the force he had in his arm.

The giant was like an ox but the blow knocked him out.

By this time Toplinsky’s men were stumbling over each other to get to
the fight, and pausing only for a second to get the direction in which
Joan and Billy had gone, Epworth adopted Toplinsky’s method of travel,
and departed with a hop-skip-and-jump. The progress he made was
startling, and very soon he was some distance away from the pirate
band, and had caught up with his companions.

“Do this,” he instructed. “Make it snappy. The giant will be after us
shortly.”

But again Toplinsky proved wise. When he discovered that his
companions could not master the art of advance, he did not give chase.
He knew now that Epworth had a gun, and he was not anxious to push a
contest where the gun would have to be used. Thus the three fugitives
reached the mountains, and found refuge in a cave, the entrance of
which they blocked with a large boulder.

“We’re sitting pretty now,” Billy remarked as he rolled a cigarette,
“but I am wondering what we are going to eat and drink?”

The three Americans looked gravely out at the dreary waste land. Not a
sprig of green grass, not a tree, not a sign of a spring—only barren
white sand dunes, climbing cliffs with crater-like holes in them, and
the food and water supply in the hands of men who would kill.




CHAPTER XIV

A Moon Army


The fact that they were physically comfortable gave the Americans much
satisfaction. They were not too warm, and not cold. Toplinsky had been
exceedingly wise in selecting a deep shaded valley for his colonizing
idea, and after being two days of twenty-four hours’ duration each, in
a cave hidden from the giant, Epworth concluded that Toplinsky’s
scheme of heating the valley by solar heat during the long night and
withdrawing the heat during the day might prove successful, and that
the air created by firing the projectiles from the earth might in the
course of time, provided the bombardment continued indefinitely,
spread all over the face of the moon.

He did not attempt to get food and water during this time, feeling
sure that Toplinsky would keep a careful watch, but after forty-eight
hours the necessity for water prompted action. He started out with
Billy to go to the Aerolite and attempt to steal into the storeroom.
They waited until the Aerolite seemed in a state of rest, and its
crew, Epworth reasoned, slept.

They had to be careful of footsteps because of the Lunar attraction.

Like shadows they flitted across the open space, and approached the
airship, gaining the sides of the vessel, they thought, without being
observed. Here they paused and Epworth placed his hand on the steel
ladder-steps, and glanced around. He was startled at the clearness of
the light. Men on guard would have had little trouble seeing them come
across the open space. He shuddered. It would be easy for Toplinsky to
prepare an ambush for him; and as easy for him to keep an eye on the
cave.

From where he stood he could readily make out the mouth of their
hiding place.

“Thank goodness,” he murmured, “he doesn’t know where we are hiding.”

He looked up at the deck of the plane. It was entirely too
still—suspiciously quiet. If he was preparing to receive an enemy in
secret he would maintain just such a stillness. He would lead his
victim on.

Nevertheless, it was board the Aerolite or starve.

With a cat-like step he climbed the ladder, gun in hand, his knife in
his mouth. At the balcony there was a dark shadow. Instantly he
covered it with his gun.

“Not a whimper!” he commanded in a low voice.

“Sh—h.” It was Michael Strauss, and he put up his gun. “Toplinsky is
expecting you just inside of the door,” Michael continued. “I let
myself down from the balcony on top of the airship when I saw you
coming. He has purposely left the door open in the hope that you will
push it, and walk in.”

“We must have food,” Epworth stated tersely. “Also water.”

“Slip back down the ladder, and go around to the rear of the ship. I
also have been waiting for you, and have dropped several days’
supplies on the ground. Take this, and come back the day after
tomorrow, when the coast is clear. By that time Toplinsky will think
that you have discovered other means of getting food. Then you can
keep coming back until you are well supplied. Fortunately Toplinsky
has not yet discovered that I aided you when you were on board.”

“Michael, you’re a fine sport,” Epworth whispered. “Some day I will
find a means of returning this great favor. By your efforts you save
the lives of three people.”

“It is enough for me to know that,” Michael replied quietly.

Epworth squeezed his hand, and dropped down the ladder.

They found the supplies where Michael had designated, and returned
with them to their cave. Two days later they made another trip, and
again Michael aided them. They kept this up for over a week, and
during this time Toplinsky and his men were busily engaged in building
a large house, which they supposed he would turn into a warehouse as
well as a barracks for his men. Another force erected the solar heater
on the rim of the northern range of mountains.

At the end of six days, they had enough food and water on hand to last
three months, and as a final inspiration Epworth got Michael to send
down material to use in the construction of gliders. With this
material they worked for another day, building three small gliders
propelled with foot-power and elevated by running down hill.

The gliders were, of course, a venture, constructed along original
lines, but when Epworth tried them out the night they were finished,
he found that he could easily float them in the air against the slight
gravity of the moon.

Quite pleased with their idea, and determined to fly over Toplinsky’s
camp the next day, they retired in high spirits to sleep like rocks
until quite late. They were awakened by loud shouts and the noise of
exploding guns. When they rushed to the mouth of their cave a strange
spectacle met their gaze.

Swarming across the space north between the Aerolite and the northern
range of mountains an army of mammoth cricket-shaped things were
approaching. They came in military formation, hopping with steady,
persistent leaps, measured to an exactness that enabled each company
to land and leave the ground at the same time and in perfect unison.
Each cricket was as large as a man, and possessed six legs and two
long sharp antennas extending straight out from the eyes. They
traveled on the four rear legs, and held long, sharp, steel-pointed
lances in their front antennas and two front legs. Their backs were
hard and black, and Epworth wondered as he noted the strength of the
coating if they were bullet proof.

That they were possessed of a rare degree of intelligence was
evidenced by their military approach, and their splendid formation.
That they could use these weapons the Americans did not doubt, and
congratulated themselves that they were not the objects of attack.

When he turned his eyes toward the Aerolite, Epworth saw that
Toplinsky was already fighting. Many of his men were backed against
the half-built wall of the house, and were sharp-shooting with their
rifles.

“If Toplinsky had only a few projectiles of liquid air,” Billy
observed regretfully, “he might teach these Things something about
war.”

“As it is he and his men are going to have the fight of their lives,”
Epworth replied soberly.

“Look at their leaders!” Joan exclaimed in amazement. “They have some
kind of marvelous growth on their backs.”

Epworth, who never went without a pair of binoculars, put the glasses
to his eyes, and studied the things she pointed out. The things he saw
on top of the crickets were more wonderful than the huge insects.

They were men-shaped humps riding on the back of the crickets. At
least their small bodies, legs and arms were shaped like men but their
heads were enormous knotty projections with eye openings an inch and a
half in diameter.

“Do I see properly?” the young man inquired, handing the glasses to
Joan. “Do I see some kind of a man with a metallic-like head?”

Joan examined the riders thoughtfully. They were now approaching with
incredible rapidity and she got a better view of them.




CHAPTER XV

Battling with Crickets


“They are little men with some kind of a device over their heads,” she
asserted with assurance. “And they are acting as the general and
commanding officers of the cricket army.”

“You’ve hit it,” Epworth declared excitedly. “They are wearing a
headgear to protect them from this outside atmosphere that has been
suddenly sent down upon them. At least——”

“Perhaps they do not know that there is an atmosphere,” Billy argued,
“Maybe they live some place where there is air, and think that they
must be prepared to travel through a world where there is no air.”

“G’wan,” Joan snorted slangily. “Do you mean to suggest that they came
here from some other world?”

“Probably they came up out of some of the holes in the moon. I have
heard it suggested that the moon is hollow, and that there is a
possibility of air inside.”

Before Joan could reply to this the battle began. Toplinsky, like a
good general, waited until the moon insects were quite close, and then
poured seven volleys from repeating rifles into their ranks. The
crickets went down by hundreds. The questions as to whether or not
their backs were bullet proof was answered.

Just for a second the lines wavered; then there rent the air a loud
musical chirp. It went up and down the various lines of cricket
soldiers in waves. It was not unpleasant to hear. In fact, it was
accompanied by notes. But it was none the less deadly and demoralizing
to the colonists, and sent a chill down the backs of the three
Americans, safe in their cave retreat.

Toplinsky shouted in his shrillest voice; from far in the rear of the
cricket army came an answering call. To the unbounded wonder of both
the Americans and the colonists this answer came back in English.

“Surrender, earth men,” it called out in broken but understandable
English, “or we will wipe you out, and not leave a single person
living.”

Toplinsky’s answer was a shower of lead in the direction of the voice.
Again hundreds of crickets fell; again the ranks closed in strong
formation and came forward as if there had been no deaths.

“These Things do not fear death,” Joan whispered in awe. “They do not
know what it is. They are just big insects.”

They were coming slowly now but surely, treading softly forward as if
sneaking up on an enemy. To the observers in the cave it looked as if
they were so many cats preparing to jump on a mouse. The colonists
fired desperately. Michael, who seemed to be leading one end of the
pirate gang, got a small machine gun out of the storehouse, and began
to mow them down like a health officer doping flies. Still they came
on—seemingly irresistible, holding their sharp prongs outward, and
leaping with invisible movements with their small thin legs.

Now they were fighting the colonists hand to hand. It was apparent
however that one colonist was more than a match for ten crickets, and
they were thrown back on their second rank, only to be pushed forward
again.

Nevertheless it was patent that in time the little band of colonists
would be wiped out. Epworth was of the opinion that the crickets would
eat them. This however was merely a hunch.

“I do not like those colonists,” he remarked, “but the idea of human
beings being cornered by enormous strange insects and turned into a
lunch does not appeal to me. These Things look as if they may be of
the Orthoptera family but one cannot tell. I’m for butting in.”

“Me too,” Billy agreed, “but how?”

“Follow me and we will see.”

Epworth ran to his newly constructed glider, fastened the plane around
his shoulders, and started down the mountainside for a take-off.

“Where are you going?” Joan inquired anxiously.

“We must get to the Aerolite storeroom, and see if we can unlimber
some of the heavy gas guns and nitroglycerine weapons. No time to
lose.”

All three ran down the mountainside, got into the air, and with the
bicycle motors they had attached to the planes directed their course
to the Aerolite. Finally they landed on top of the machine as gently
as birds. Entering the storeroom, the two men hastily put together one
of the large nitroglycerine guns, a big cannon, and a powder gatlin
gun Toplinsky had brought along as a measure of defense. These weapons
they rolled to the side of the machine from whence came the attack,
and both began a bombardment of the cricket army.

The result was startling.

At the first tremendous roar of the cannon, the crickets came to a
dead stop. Not since untold ages had such a noise been heard on the
face of the moon. Here was all stillness—a terrifying quietude, not
even the chirp of a bird or the whirr of a snake. The sudden
explosion, as if the entire face of the moon was bursting, and with it
was blowing into pieces a large number of crickets, frightened not
only the crickets but the little men who were riding on their backs,
and with one movement they turned and fled.

But as they departed they carried with them a number of colonists as
prisoners. Epworth shuddered as he saw the colonists captured. Their
fate was plainly apparent. They would not even get the treatment of a
fat missionary. There would be no preliminaries. They would be dragged
into a hole in the moon and eaten.

The two Americans fired another shot at the disappearing insects, saw
them go forward with great bounds like grasshoppers, and finally
disappear over the top of the highest northern mountains. It was
incredible the swiftness with which they left the scene of battle.

Supposing that Toplinsky would still be antagonistic the Americans
left the top of the Aerolite with leaps that lifted them into the air,
and soon were again hidden in their cave.

“Sup—pose the crickets come back,” Joan said fearfully as she removed
the shoulder straps of her glider. “They seemed highly intelligent,
and were led by minds that did not think of defeat. If they return
they will have a large increase in number, and——”

Billy drew his finger across his throat, and pointed at the colony
camp.




CHAPTER XVI

Billy Disappears


They were not in the cave over an hour when Michael appeared. He was
quite nervous, and greatly troubled.

“We want you, Mr. Epworth,” he greeted, “to come and take command of
the camp. Toplinsky has been carried off by the huge moon monsters of
insect creation, and we are not able to contend with what may come
up.”

“But suppose Toplinsky escapes and returns,” Joan objected. “Our heads
will not be worth much.”

“We have threshed that out, and the camp will, as one man, force him
to treat you kindly, and as an equal. In fact, they say that the
Americans won the day for them against these Lunar enemies, and that
hereafter they cannot afford to trust everything to the general. He
will have to divide authority with you, and agree to your terms.”

“Very well. We will come. Billy, remain here and put things in shape
to keep. We will not go off and leave ourselves without supplies in
case we have to come back. Later we will return and all of us will go
back to the Aerolite. I also think that we must band together to
protect ourselves from all kinds of Lunar enemies.”

Accompanied by Joan, Epworth entered his glider and flew over to the
Aerolite. They were greeted as conquering heroes, and Epworth was
immediately put in charge of the camp. First, he established a strong
military organization with Michael as the commanding officer, and
arranged to materialize all the stores of the Aerolite into defense
weapons. When this work was completed he created a council of five,
and had the colonists elect the members. This council was to be the
governing power, and he bound the pirates by firm obligations to force
Toplinsky to obey the orders of this council.

With this accomplished he and Joan returned, well satisfied, to their
cave, leaving the entire membership of the colony housed in the
Aerolite so that if any danger arose they could fly out of it.

“Hey, there, Billy!” Epworth shouted as he landed lightly in front of
the cave. “Snap out of it. We’re going to go to the Aerolite. From
this on, I think it will be perfectly safe for us.”

There was no answer, and with a frown on his face the young man
divested himself of his glider, and entered the cave.

Billy was not there, and his glider and all their supplies were
missing.

“W-w-what do you suppose happened to him?” Joan inquired nervously,
looking over Epworth’s shoulder. “We were not gone over two hours, and
yet all of our supplies are gone—things that it took us ten days to
cart from the Aerolite. Looks as if ghosts had been here.”

“Billy could not have moved them in this time,” Epworth reasoned.
“Something has happened to him.”

With the carefulness of a detective he began to search the cave for
evidence that would lead to the direction in which Billy had gone.
Every article they had left in the way of supplies was gone. Even the
water jars were missing, and the only evidence of the presence of
enemies consisted of numerous small lines in the sand of the floor.
These lines looked like finger marks. Billy’s foot prints, close to
the point where they had last seen his glider, were plainly evidenced,
but Epworth could not ascertain the direction he had gone when he
left. In fact, reasoning by his foot tracks, he went up into the air,
and he could not have gone far in this direction because the top of
the cave would have stopped him.

Running back in the cave the young American looked for evidence that
would indicate that the small finger tracks had gone that way. The
back of the cave, which they had not previously investigated, ran up
against a big pile of boulders and seemingly came to an end.

“These tracks,” he finally said to Joan in a hushed voice, “were
probably made by those cricket-like animals that attacked the
Aerolite. If so——”

“They have twelve hands and no feet. With their front hands they hold
their weapons, and are also able to use their four leg hands as feet
and hands.” She shivered. “It’s ghostly; it gives me the all-overs.
They came in here, captured Billy and disappeared in the air.”

“I reason the same way,” Epworth agreed. “But what are we going to do?
We must do something to help Billy.”

“Find out where they went and follow them.”

“Rather large order.” Epworth grinned dryly. “There may be two million
of them.”

“They didn’t go back into the cave,” Joan insisted heatedly;
“consequently they must have come up around the mountains and slipped
up on Billy.”

“Then they discovered him while we were at the Aerolite, and have
taken him to the northern range of hills—where they carried
Toplinsky.”

“Sounds likely.”

“Then it is me for the north. You go to the Aerolite, and wait until I
come back. I will make a thorough search in my glider.”

“Not me. Where you go I go also. I am not taking any chances of being
separated from you in this strange world. To be candid I don’t like
these cricket Things; and I don’t like the pigmy men who ride on them
and direct them in battle.”

“Have it your way. We will communicate with Michael, and tell him to
keep a constant watch, and that at the first approach of the enemies
get into the air with the Aerolite. I am quite sure that in the
airship they will be safe.”

But when they spoke to Michael and informed him that they contemplated
going in search of Billy and Toplinsky, the young guard demurred.

“Suppose you discover them prisoners in the hands of a large army?” he
suggested. “What will you do?”

“Scheme to free them. I certainly will not leave human beings at the
mercy of myriads of cricket-shaped Things that may eat them.”

Equipped with food to last for a week, armed with tear guns and
automatics, and carrying with them two large air helmets which they
thought they might need in case they were forced to seek high
altitude, they entered their gliders, and sailed toward the range of
mountains in the north. There were many tall peaks ahead of
them—mountains that stuck their noses high into the dark sky, and
which Epworth knew were pitted with enormous craters.

When they got to the point where the cricket army had disappeared,
they circled around for half an hour studying the country with their
glasses. In front of them, near the range of mountains which they
encircled, they saw another large valley, almost circular. Beyond this
valley came a rugged foothill country and further on there was an
immense peak, eighteen thousand feet high.

Epworth jockeyed his glider close to his sister.

“According to the maps of the earth astronomers,” he explained, “that
mountain is the Crater Agrippa. I’ve got a hunch that our crickets
dwell inside of that crater. It is deep down, over five miles, to the
bottom, and if my reasoning is sound the air in the bottom of the
crater is heavier than on the surface of the moon. It would, it seems,
make an ideal place for Things like these crickets to live. They are
thin of body, elongated in form, spread out broadly, light in weight
but strongly muscled, and the gravity of the moon would about fit
their physical shapes.”

“Granting all your science, what are you going to do?”

“Go to the bottom of that crater. If we find nothing there we will
search among these innumerable small pits that we see everywhere.”

Joan shuddered.

“Go into the darkness of all these holes?”

She was terrified at the thought.

“Certainly—if we fail to find our friend above the hollows that we
know are inside of the moon.”

“Hollows inside of the moon?” She dropped her eyes. She was startled,
made afraid. The idea of crawling around on her hands and knees
hunting for lunar crickets in dark holes was terrifying. “And—and—we
must crawl in——?”

“I am more cheerful. These crickets were led by pigmy men. It is not
likely that the pigmies live in holes, although, I am free to confess
that I would naturally expect the crickets to be crawling around in
dark places.”

With a slight shrug of her shoulders, Joan turned her glider toward
the peak that Epworth had declared was the Crater Agrippa. In two
minutes Epworth was in the lead. They were both determined, but their
hearts were beating furiously.

What dangers would they meet deep in the bowels of the moon? What kind
of life could they expect to find? Was Billy alive or dead? Had they
taken him to join Toplinsky or would they have to make separate hunts
for the two men?

To gain the summit of the high peak they had to go up in running
jumps. They would run several steps, then jump into the air, and pedal
to gain height. In this way they finally got to a point where they
could look down into a deep crater.




CHAPTER XVII

“Something’s Got Me”


Down, down—on into a pit of bottomless depth, circling slowly,
cautiously, and nosing steadily. Now they could look upward, and see
the stars shining out of a black sky, as if they were in a deep well;
and still they descended past steep cliffs of white rock, walls as
smooth as a rifle bore; then into a region of jagged walls, and stone
of volcanic ore; past innumerable dark holes that pierced gloomily
into dreadful, mysterious places under the ground; whirling all the
time within the grasp of a crater ten miles in diameter.

Suddenly it grew dark. The sun, in throwing its light into the crater
had been cut off by the slight rotations of the moon. It was a gloom
that caused Joan to close her eyes, and hold her breath.

Would they never reach the bottom?

Miles dropped away, and still the air held them up, and they sailed in
circles. That his companion might follow, Epworth turned on his flash
light, and attached it to the wing of his glider.

It was a flight like Mercury speeding as a messenger through
inscrutable space. Two little planes, with operators wearing air
helmets that dimmed vision, were slipping softly, silently, into the
bowels of the moon, hunting a strange land in an unknown world.

It necessitated matchless courage, and steady nerves. These two went
on seeking to save.

They went on until complete darkness engulfed them—a darkness that
grew steadily murky, oppressive, frightful. Still they continued.
Where Epworth led, Joan was determined to follow. Would they ever be
able to climb out? Would their small, inefficient gliders, the
invention of a moment, notwithstanding their propelling power, be able
to ascend that dizzy height? True that when they entered, the air was
so rare that they had to wear air helmets, and that now they put them
aside to find heavier and better breathing; but the space was limited,
there was no wind to get beneath the plane and elevate it; the whole
mysterious dark world was as still as death, and as creepy as the
grave.

Joan was on the verge of screaming aloud. Epworth was beginning to get
nervous.

He looked down, and thought he saw a light. Before he could settle his
mind on this point he bumped against the ground. It was a light shock,
and he felt no injury but it served to stop the flight of his glider.
The next moment Joan bumped into him and also came to a stop. The
contact came before he had an opportunity to call out to her to be on
guard.

“Julian! Julian!” she cried. “Where are you?”

“Do not be alarmed,” he reassured. “I am here.”

Disengaging the plane from her shoulders, and leaving the straps that
held it tight on the wing, she advanced toward him. When she came to
him he was stepping out of the glider.

“What now?” she inquired dryly. “We are in the bottom of Mount
Agrippa, and, if you will excuse the slang, it certainly has a grip I
do not like.”

“I believe I see a dim light off there,” he pointed out with his index
finger. “Do you see it?”

“Perhaps it is an underground volcano,” she suggested. “I feel warm.”

“Merely underground heat. Were it a volcano it would be brighter.
However we will not know unless we investigate.”

Shifting his tear gun, which he had attached to his belt, to a
convenient place, and holding his flash light in his hand, the young
man led the way cautiously. They were on a level, ashy floor, in which
their feet buried at each step; but without pausing to investigate the
character of the soil they strode forward steadily. It was a longer
walk than he thought it would be, and presently they became aware that
there was a roof over their heads—a roof of earth. When Joan made this
discovery she was for turning back.

“No,” Epworth decided. “The light ahead is getting stronger. Presently
we will be somewhere.”

This conclusion was not justified by what they saw but the light began
to get brighter, and after a time they could see each other.

“It is spooky,” Joan breathed out, lagging behind a little.
“Absolutely unhuman. There is no sun, there is no heat, but we can
see. What causes it?”

“It is a phosphorescent glow emanating from the walls of the crater,”
Julian replied thoughtfully. “That is the only ex——”

“Help! Help, Julian!” Joan screamed. “Something’s got me. Something——”

Her utterances were cut off by two long, thin, bone-like tentacles
twisting around her neck. At the same second Epworth was attacked.

The young man however was as swift as an eagle, and had been ever on
the alert. He recognized the fact instantly that the crickets were
upon them, and that he could not fight them with his flash light.
Dropping the light, which was attached to his clothing by a cord, he
drew his tear gun and swept a stream of tear gas into the face of the
Things around him. The gas stopped them instantly, and with an agile
bound he darted to Joan’s side. She was in the hands of six crickets,
their bodies dimly visible in the phosphorous light. They were
standing on their hind legs, and were making a saddle of their middle
extremities while pushing Joan into the saddle with their front hands.

Epworth’s tear gun proved highly efficient. It gassed the two who made
the saddle. This caused the other four to drop the girl. Instantly the
young man shot the tear gas above Joan’s head into their faces, caught
the girl and dragged her to him. A stream of the insects came at him,
chirping savagely. Darting to the side of the cave he carried his
companion with him.

The effort seemed useless, for now his retreat was cut off by an army
of the hopping monsters. The only thing left him was to back against
the wall, and use his tear gun. This he did.

The crickets, with their singing chirps, became suddenly appalling
with their din. Epworth shuddered, side stepped, and undertook to push
Joan behind him in order to protect her. The move was fatal. Stumbling
over a boulder, he fell backward head over heels into a hole in the
wall.

In a desperate effort to save Joan he twisted her in his arms, and
placed her above his body with a view of making a cushion of his body
when they struck terra firma. How far it was to the bottom of this
hole he had no way of ascertaining. It might be two thousand feet
deep. These moon holes were tremendous affairs. All he knew was that
he was falling and that the crickets were sending out musical notes of
triumph.

However, since coming to the moon he had discovered that he could jump
a long ways and land without being hurt; that he could even leap off a
high cliff without danger to life or limb, and now he found that they
were not falling fast, and this gave him encouragement.

They struck bottom abruptly. Epworth was jarred and bruised some, but
not seriously hurt although he lay as if stunned for several seconds.
Joan was unhurt, and during the descent had regained her full
faculties, which were leaving her under the choking power of the
cricket tentacles. The second they were still she twisted out of
Epworth’s arms, caught his flash light, which had been knocked out of
circuit by the fall, and began to work with it hysterically. In a
brief period she had it in action and was throwing a narrow stream of
light around.

They had landed on a large ledge suspended over a bottomless chasm,
and behind them there was a big tunnel. As they were dangerously close
to the edge of the precipice she staggered to her feet and pulled
Epworth away from the danger point.

“My,” she whispered, “I thought we were goners.”

Without waiting for Epworth to speak she stepped to the tunnel and
shot her light ray into its gloomy depth. For several seconds the
light pierced the gloom for fifteen feet, flickered, and died out. The
battery had been exhausted, and now they were in murky, terrifying
gloom with a deep chasm on three sides. In dying despair the girl
covered her face with her hands.

Epworth, breathing heavily, sat up.

“Let me have the flash light,” he suggested.

“It has gone out for good,” she replied in a hopeless voice, at the
same time handing him the tube. “I can’t get a ray out of it.”

Epworth fumbled with it for a moment in the dark.

“The batteries are dead,” he explained. “How foolish not to have
looked into this before we started.”

“Great heavens!” Joan moaned. “Lost in the center of the moon, and no
light to direct our steps.”

“Never say die,” the young man encouraged. “Take my hand. It is my
left. I am holding my automatic in my right.”

They groped forward. Action was at the moment necessary to keep Joan
from losing her mind. On and on they stumbled. Each step they expected
to plunge heels-over-head into another deep chasm but persistently
they followed the twisting meanderings of the passage.

Suddenly Joan stopped and sniffed the air, trembling violently.

“There—there—is something alive in this place,” she muttered feebly.
“I—I—smell something awful—horrid,
and—and—I—feel—a—sinister—presence.”

Epworth sniffed with his nostrils. The scent was now overpowering,
musty, terrifyingly rotten.

“You must be mistaken about there being living beings in here,” he
protested. “That smell would indicate that we have stumbled on the
crickets’ graveyard.”

“Or, or, or,” Joan caught his hand convulsively to keep from
screaming, “their commissary department. Maybe—maybe—living beings are
confined here until they rot, and are then eaten as food.”

Epworth could not suppress the shudder that swept over him from head
to foot.




CHAPTER XVIII

In the Chamber of Horrors


“It—it—is a chamber of horrors,” Joan gasped. “I know there is a ghost
in this place or some living thing. I can feel it; I can hear a slight
movement.”

Epworth strained his eyes in every direction. All was murky darkness,
Cimmerian gloom. If there was anything living near, the darkness
wrapped it in an envelop impossible to penetrate.

“You are certainly mistaken,” he soothed. “There is no living thing
here. It couldn’t——”

He paused. There came the suspicion of a sound to his ear. It was very
soft. A rat could not move with less noise; a cat in stepping would
have sounded like a cannon exploding. What could it be? Noiseless
crickets—a nest of young crickets expecting a mother? The cavern
seemed large and the air seemed pure but that animals or things could
live in such a place seemed impossible. He voiced his thoughts.

“It is strange that there is air in here,” Joan admitted, “and
stranger yet that I should think that there is life here. But this is
a strange world. We never saw a Thing on earth like these moon
crickets. Nor is there a pigmy on earth like the pigmies that rode on
the crickets; nor are there great hollows in the earth where the air
has congealed and left the outside cold and airless. It is a different
creation entirely. Mercy! I see—I see—eyes staring at me from out the
darkness. Holy angels, protect me! There are three of them, and they
are running me crazy to look at them.”

Her teeth chattered until Epworth could hear them, and she buried her
head in the young man’s shirt front. Now he also saw the eyes. There
were three—great red lights that flared in the darkness. Two on a
level, and one in the center. The center eye was enormous and
terrifying to the extreme. Brave as he was he shivered with terror.
There was something so ghostly, uncanny, about the Thing that his
nerves washed out.

Then it flashed by. A nasty-smelling Thing shot out of the gloom; a
Thing with a lizard-like, scaly body, long legs and antennas; a Thing
that carried a phosphorus glow that plainly disclosed its proportions.
It went by them like a railroad train, an enormous whirling, gliding
animal that chilled them unto death.

Joan screamed at the top of her voice, and fell limp. Epworth stumbled
and fell forward on his face. Each second they expected the Thing to
pounce on them, and mash them flat.

Then oblivion fell on both.

It seemed hours later that the two returned to consciousness. They
were on the same level, rocky floor, lying side by side, and Epworth
was holding his gun in his hand. It had not been discharged.

When he made this discovery he rose quickly to his feet. His first
thought was of the evil-smelling Thing that had appeared out of the
darkness. Where was it? Were there others back in this chamber of
horrors? Was the one he saw preparing another attack on them?

He looked around with fearful eyes. He could not see any signs of the
animal. That did not mean that it was not near. He thought that the
Thing could move with less noise than a cat, and with the swiftness of
an eel.

“W-w-what was it?” Joan stammered.

“I hope to high heaven I never find out,” Epworth breathed fervently.
“It was the most gosh-awful horror that ever stirred my nerves. It has
probably crawled back in its hole, which must be down this chamber. I
hope it dies before I see it again. At least I am going to go in the
direction directly opposite from that taken by the Thing—and I am
going as fast as my slow feet will let me.”

He sprang up, caught her hand, and ran hurriedly down the chamber,
stumbling over big rocks, and against the sides of the tunnel in his
desperate effort to leave the spot.

He had no idea where he was going. For all he knew he was going back
the way he came. He was getting away from that chamber of horrors as
speedily as possible.

They wandered on for an hour—two hours. There was no end to the dark
tunnel but they were moving and getting farther and farther away from
that hidden monster; and they were going swiftly, without thinking of
falling into another chasm. In fact any kind of a hole would have been
preferable to this, and they dared not stop.

Finally Joan looked ahead and saw a streak of light.

“Thank heavens,” she breathed. “At last we are coming to the end of
this horrible tunnel.”

Epworth did not reply. He was not so sure. On the contrary he could
not, by his greatest scientific legerdemain, figure how they would
ever get out of this crater.

The end came abruptly—butting up against a pile of large stones. There
were large cracks between the stones, and it was patent that
intelligent hands had placed them and not Nature. Some being or some
intelligent Thing had blocked up the passage purposely with loose
stones, to keep out the enormous reptiles.

But the light was streaming through the cracks, and the two were crazy
to get to light again. If this darkness enveloped them many hours
longer they would lose their minds. Both fell on the rocks with one
thought, and began to tear them aside.

When a crack large enough to see through was made they drew back
dismayed. The walls of the chamber ahead were lighted by a stream of
fiery lava, and there seemed no prospect of escaping from their cavern
prison. However the dim light was preferable to the intense gloom that
pervaded the passage they were in, and Epworth decided to dig in.

He attempted to survey the interior of the other chamber but his view
was shut off by the narrowness of the opening, and again he fell to
removing the loose stones. Soon he had an opening large enough to push
through.

When they stepped into the chamber their hearts jumped with surprise.
Billy Sand and Herman Toplinsky were lying on the floor near where
they entered with their hands bound, and their faces against the
floor. On a stone couch near them was a beautiful little woman, no
larger than a ten-year old girl. She was splendidly formed, and her
blonde hair was wrapped around her body in a braid and fell almost to
her feet. She also was bound hand and foot.

With a leap Epworth was by Billy’s side, slashing the cords that bound
him. When Billy was free Epworth released Toplinsky and the girl on
the couch in the same manner. When freed Toplinsky sat up lazily and
stretched his arms and legs.

“Ah, ha, the beautiful Joan—the lady who hates me,” he greeted
amiably. “Pleased to meet you—truly am—but before we make merry let us
hurriedly get away by the passage through which you entered. I fear
that we have very little time to lose. In fact——”

He was interrupted by a noise at the far end of the chamber. Glancing
in the direction they saw a large stone rolled away, and thirty
crickets, marching in military formation, came in, stepping carefully
over the stream of lava. They carried sharp steel-pronged spears, and
it was apparent that their intentions were not friendly.

They were led by five men and a woman. And such a woman! Like the
blonde girl on the couch she was no larger than a ten-year old child
but she was bewilderingly beautiful although her flesh was copper
colored. Her hair, a deep blue black, was twisted around her waist
over a richly colored red breech cloth. Otherwise she was naked. Her
eyes, slightly oblique, were slothful at times and at other times full
of fire, transforming her into a menacing dictator. She was ornamented
like a barbarous queen with bracelets on her arms, and a crown of
jewels on her head.

The men who led the crickets were also copper colored, and small in
stature, well-formed except their heads, which were just a trifle
large for their bodies. When Joan looked into their faces she closed
her eyes. The lines of the faces were badly wrinkled, the mouths were
contorted and there was a smirk of evil stamped over them. That they
were highly intelligent, however, she was soon to learn.

The woman, whose head was better formed, spoke, to their surprise, in
broken English with a peculiar pronunciation that caused them to bend
their ears attentively to comprehend.

“I am Carza, the queen of the moon.” She drew her form proudly erect
and stared arrogantly at the little blonde girl on the couch. “You are
aware of that now, Moawha,” she continued addressing the girl. “From
this on you are my slave. Perhaps, a little later I shall slay you,
and be rid of your pretensions forever.”

She paused, shrugged her shoulders, and smiled softly. It was not an
angelic expression but it exhibited her even, white teeth, and proved
exceedingly attractive to Toplinsky, and the others thought that she
was quite exquisite.

“You are earth men.” She turned imperiously to Toplinsky. “You are
wondering how I am able to speak to you in your own language? It is
simple. For years our scientists have been getting peculiar words out
of the air, and recording them on their space records. For a long time
they could make little out of the noises from space but in time they
concluded that they were hearing the people on the great world around
which our smaller planet revolves every twenty-eight days. Were they
correct in their surmise?”

She looked inquiringly at Toplinsky. He nodded in the affirmative, and
with the grace of a courtier.

“Ah, ha, it is so, your most gracious majesty. We are charmed to meet
a lady of such distinction.”

Carza knitted her eyebrows slightly, and then smiled sweetly at the
giant.

“So they put their intellects to work, and gradually worked out an
understanding of things that you call earthly as well as an ability to
talk in your language.”

“Wonderful! Wonderful!” Toplinsky added. “Did they also discover a way
of sending to the earth?”

She shook her head.

“Our instruments, it seemed, are not of a character that will put us
into direct communication. We can hear but not send. However I do not
understand how you gained your liberty. I was told that you were bound
hand and foot, and that my people only waited word from me to slay
you.”

One of the copper leaders approached deferentially, dropped to his
knees, and began to speak to her in an unknown tongue.

“So, so,” she mused when he had completed his explanation, “there were
only two men and Moawha when you were left here as prisoners, and you
have been hatching a man and woman.” She smiled artfully, and the
smile was more disagreeable than a threat. “Some of your friends have
been able to follow and have broken in to help you escape. Seize
them!”

She thundered the command shrilly, and drew back to lean against the
wall. The copper men, followed by the crickets, sprang forward giving
the cricket chirp of command.

“Keep them off!” Epworth commanded harshly. “They must not undertake
to touch us.”

“Must not,” sneered Queen Garza. “A bold word, Sir Earth Man. We shall
see. Have at them, Noble Tauran.”

The copper men and the crickets rushed in a body. Epworth knocked down
the leader with the butt of his gun, and Toplinsky, seizing a large
cricket by its rear legs, swung the insect around his head, and
charged, knocking the copper men and crickets around like marbles.

Queen Carza leaned negligently against the wall, and dropped her chin
nonchalantly into the palm of her hand. These men had been reported to
her to be great fighters, and she loved fighters. She watched with
keen interest. Frequently she nodded her head as if well satisfied.

Joan could not understand this satisfaction. The crickets and the
pigmy men were obviously unable to do harm to the three earthmen. But
the queen was only waiting. When she discovered that her body guard
was facing inevitable defeat she chirped through her teeth.

It was the musical chirp of the crickets, calling them to battle. They
came, swarming through the door and surrounding Toplinsky and the two
Americans like locusts. Billy, because of his small stature (he was
only five five) went down quickly; Epworth fought aggressively for
several moments but his long, fast and strenuous efforts in the cave
without water had weakened him temporarily, and finally he gave way,
his feet slipped, and a hundred crickets had him pinned to the floor.

“Ah, ha, ho, ho! The bantam fighter is down,” Toplinsky roared with a
laugh that sounded like a fiend. “It is sad indeed. Some day we will
renew that interesting contest for Lady Joan’s favor. At present
however——”

He backed against the wall, and began to use his arms like a windmill,
pushing the crickets and pigmies around like chaff. It seemed to the
onlookers as if flesh and blood could not battle in this manner. With
his pale blue eyes flashing fire, his long, shaggy hair whirled back
over the crown of his head, and his heavy red beard twisting from
right to left with each movement of his head, he looked like a fiend.

Epworth, Joan and Billy, and the girl called Moawha, by the queen,
were bound and placed with their backs to the wall, and still
Toplinsky fought. If his strength held out it seemed as if he would be
able to stand off a nation of crickets.

“Hold!”

The command came from the queen, and was accompanied by a cricket
chirp. Instantly her cohorts ceased fighting, and Toplinsky, smiling
as if in the face of death, extended his hand, jerked a toga off of
one of the pigmies, and wiped the blood from his forehead where he had
been hit by a spear.

Pushing aside the crickets and soldiers Carza strode fearlessly up to
the giant, and stopped to gaze into his face fascinated.

“You are a great fighter,” she said abruptly.

“I am,” Toplinsky agreed without modesty. “I am the greatest fighter
you ever saw, or ever will see.”

“Bend your head,” she commanded.

With a smile that displayed his huge teeth disagreeably Toplinsky
obeyed. The queen took the cloth from his hands, cleaned the blood
from his face, and thrust the bloody rag into her waist band.

“I have been looking for a man of mighty valor—a man like you. Yes,
you have been the search of my life. Come! Together we will go far.
You will aid me in destroying my enemies, and increase my power over
the whole world.”

“But how about me?” Toplinsky objected. “What do I get?”

“You will become the husband of the queen, and if I find that I love
you as I think I shall, you will become the leader above me.”

Toplinsky picked her up in his left hand, kissed her, and put her back
on the floor.

“It shall be as you say.”

“If you take that woman for your queen you must slay thousands of
innocent people,” Moawha broke out passionately. “They are gentle,
kind-hearted, and constantly warred upon by these abominable
crickets—who eat them.”

Moawha also spoke in broken English but her words were not as clear as
those pronounced by the queen.

“I shall have your feet toasted in that nice little stream of fire,”
Carza said coldly, turning malevolently on Moawha. “You are not
interested in this.”

Her black eyes were flashing fiercely as she spoke but they cleared
instantly when she turned to Toplinsky.

“Yes, it pleases me. I shall make you king.”

“Ho, comrades!” Toplinsky called out to the little men. “See that
these Americans do not escape. Also look after this strange little
woman. Presently we shall slay the two men but not the earth woman.
Ha! ha!”

He laughed uproariously.

“Be sure to guard Moawha well,” the queen commanded, recognizing as
official the authority Toplinsky was grasping. “She shall die during
the crowning ceremonies.”




CHAPTER XIX

The Knife Dance


After two days, during which they were fed on water and dried fruit—a
variety that the Americans had never seen before—their captors entered
the prison, lifted them on to the backs of crickets, and marched them
along for hours through a vast underground world, lighted by a
phosphorescent glow, and teeming with crickets. The insects displayed
rare intelligence in the way they lived. They had traffic regulations,
certain paths of progress, large stacks of food guarded carefully by
armed crickets, and constantly added to and systematically given out,
playgrounds of peculiar construction, and places—or rather—spots
of—assemblage where they listened to each other chirp as if they were
singing.

The prisoners were hurried along so rapidly that they could see very
little of this life, and could only marvel at its strangeness.

Finally they came to a large underground palace. It was not a house
but Nature had built large pillars that extended upward several
hundred feet. They were composed of shining quartz interspersed with
uncut diamonds burned into the quartz by Nature.

As they entered through these portals they trod upon a yellow floor
that they soon discovered was panned gold dust.

At the entrance the crickets turned them over to a body guard of pigmy
men—fifteen in number. The pigmies cut the cords from around their
feet, and marched them into a large throne room with their spears
thrust against their sides and their hands tied behind their backs. At
the back end of the room was a throne ostentatiously ornamented with
gold and glittering jewels. Seated side by side on the throne were
Toplinsky and Queen Carza.

“Ah, ha, ho, ho, we meet again.” The giant looked at Joan with a glare
that caused her to shrink backward. “My statuesque blonde, again, but
I fear that I cannot offer her very great inducement at present. You
are invited to take part in the ceremonies that will make me king of
the moon, and join me in power with this lovely queen. Kneel to her!”

The last was whipped out like a lash, and Joan dropped thoughtlessly
on her knees, frightened at the giant’s tone of voice. The other three
prisoners, however, stood firmly erect.

“I kneel to God only,” Epworth declared vigorously. “If you wish to
take up with a female murderess that is your business, but we are
Americans.”

Queen Carza’s slothful eyes glittered ominously.

“The first part of the program,” she remarked as if Epworth had not
spoken, “will consist of a dance by the beautiful and accomplished
Moawha, formerly queen of the Selinites but now a mere dancing slave.
When the dance is finished we will eat some delicate fruit gathered
from the groves of her Land, and then—ah, then, my dear, I will have
your feet, and the feet of these other prisoners, thrust into that
smouldering fire.”

She pointed at a small stream of lava that spluttered softly over the
rocky bottom of the cavern, and flowed gently into a deep hole.

Joan dropped her head to repress a cry of alarm. Was this woman an
incarnate fiend that she loved to torture unto death innocent girls?

“Ah, ha! We win,” Toplinsky exclaimed as if in great admiration. “A
fit mate for the greatest scientist of the earth-world. We shall get
along admirably. But for the benefit of you Americans, who are going
to die presently—all of you except Joan whose death I shall endeavor
to have shifted to some remote period—I will say that Queen Carza and
I have some great plans ahead. Already I have discovered that her
people are gifted and know much science. True they do not live here
but we will soon be at home with them. Then we shall first conquer the
moon. I understand that there are about two million pigmies who give
allegiance to Moawha. We will capture them, and make slaves of them
although Carza has only an army of fifty thousand soldiers. To capture
them will be easy with Moawha dead, and my knowledge of gunpowder and
gas. When we have destroyed them and gained complete control over
crickets and pigmies I shall turn my attention to Capitalistic
America. I have always hated that country, and shall wipe it out.
First I will land my exploding projectiles on the City of New York.
Ah, ha, ho, ho!”

He paused and sneered evilly at Epworth, and the American felt a cold
chill pass over him. As a power for evil he admitted that Toplinsky
could be monstrous.

“Ah, ha, I laugh loudly! I roar with genuine amusement! I wring my
hands together with great pleasure! I see consternation and terrible
disaster sweep over fair America. Secure in my moon kingdom I shoot
deliberately, quietly, when I will, and I direct my projectiles by
radio. When I say unto myself ‘today I shall wipe out Chicago,’ that
day I will do it; when I look in the glass at the faces of myself and
my beloved queen and point at the map where there is now the City of
St. Louis, and say, ‘I will make a huge telescope and tomorrow week
you may watch that City and see it go up in smoke.’ Ah ha, it is so.
I, Herman Toplinsky, the greatest man that ever lived, have said, and
what I have said I have said.”

“Let the dance proceed,” Queen Carza commanded, placing her little
copper hand affectionately on the giant’s enormous hand, and dropping
her head into his lap. “I would see her dance the ‘Knife Dance’ for
the last time. I hear that the beautiful blond queen is the most
graceful dancer in our world. I wish to discover if this is true. If
she proves extraordinarily artistic I may conclude to dance with
her—or rather against her.”

Epworth and Joan glanced at each other.

“She is quite capricious,” Joan observed in a low voice.

“And as deadly as a rattlesnake.”

“I prefer the snake,” Billy put in. “In fact, I think you basely
slander the reptile.”

Moawha’s bonds were removed, a number of crickets and pigmy soldiers
moved up around her, cleared a space before the throne, and encircled
the space. Before she began the dance she was handed a long, sharp
two-edged knife. The blade was ten or twelve inches.

“I’d like to get hold of that knife,” Billy remarked whimsically in a
low voice.

Moawha flashed upon him an expressive glance, and then began her
pirouette mazes. With her long blond hair sweeping around her like a
cloak, she soon demonstrated that if she had a moon-wide reputation as
a dancer she could maintain it. It was a strange, wonderful, weird,
mystical terpsichorean exhibition during which she brandished the
knife she held in a seemingly reckless manner. Up to the throne, back
again, across the chamber, and each time that she neared the throne
her lithe form twisted gracefully, somersaulted over the knife held in
a dangerous manner, and the knife flashed wickedly toward the queen.

“Ah, it is so,” Toplinsky suddenly burst out. “Me-thinks that Queen
Carza is wise in watching this dance from an elevated platform. If the
fair blond came close enough I have an idea that her life would be a
short one, if not merry.”

He had scarcely finished his remark when Moawha darted backward,
flipped over with an athletic whirl, dropped down behind Billy’s back,
and whirled away.

But she had done much with that dexterous movement. Her keen knife had
slashed the bonds that bound Billy.

“Keep your hands behind your back,” she whispered to him. “Let them
appear tied.”

Before Toplinsky or the queen discovered her intention she made
another dexterous whirl, turned a somersault over Epworth’s head,
landed behind him and freed his hands. The next second she was
whirling away toward the throne. But this time she was a little too
slow. Toplinsky, who was quite observant, caught her freeing Epworth.

“Ah, ha, the little blond is——”

Like a cannon ball Epworth shot across the chamber, and landed in
front of Queen Carza.

“Call them off!” he hissed, seizing the queen by the arm with a
fierce, painful clutch. “Call them off, Toplinsky, or this lady is
going to be hurt.”

There was need of rapid action. Urged by the pigmy officers the
crickets were jumping forward directly at Billy and Joan. Billy pulled
his knife, and with one sweep cut the cords around Joan’s wrists.

“Use your tear gun!” Epworth called out. “Joan, you still have it in
your belt.”

Joan remembered the gun, and acted. With a single motion she swept a
circle around her.

“Get my automatic,” she whispered to Billy. “This promises to be
interesting. It is also in my belt.”

“Tell the queen to order them back,” Epworth again commanded.

There was no mistaking his intention. Toplinsky had previously braved
the American’s gun, and he responded to the threat. The queen obeyed
him, and the crickets slowly drew back as Queen Carza chirped at them.
Toplinsky made a move even in the face of Epworth’s threat.

“Slow down, Toplinsky!” Epworth growled. “Not a move or your
snake-like queen is going to begin to cry out loud.”

Toplinsky sneered a little. By this time he had regained his
composure, and was preparing to leap on Epworth. When he noticed the
glare in the young American’s eyes he slumped back. Epworth did not
realize it but many thoughts were racing through the giant’s mind.
Suppose Epworth should strangle the queen? He shivered. He really did
not think that Epworth would commit such an act but if he did he would
be in more danger than Epworth and his friends. With Queen Carza to
aid him he would soon be in complete control of the moon-world;
without her the crickets and pigmies would kill him instantly. He had
lorded it over them quite harshly during the few days he had been at
liberty and in power, and he had escaped death at their hands only
recently. Now he realized that the crickets and pigmies did not like
him. He had ruthlessly killed too many of them. True they did not
understand what death was but they knew enough to realize that this
big giant did not hesitate to wipe them out.

“Go easy, Epworth,” he said soberly. “You are standing on dynamite.
Perhaps we can ar——”

He was temporizing, preparing for a treacherous attack, and Epworth
knew it.

“I am going easy as long as you keep off your dogs of war but you are
not going to act funny.”

“So far so good,” Billy called out, “but where are we going—and how?”

It was a problem. For the moment they seemed to be on top—they had
their enemies tied. But this could not last. They were still in the
center of the great Crater Agrippa, buried alive amid thousands of
crickets that would eat them if they got a chance, with every avenue
of escape seemingly closed, and long, dark, terrifying tunnels between
them and the open air.

Joan breathed a breath of despair. Escape seemed impossible. They
could not march the queen through phalanx after phalanx of armed
crickets and intelligent pigmy men. Any second a number could sneak up
in their rear, or drop upon them out of one of the dark holes over
their heads. Yet this seemed to be the only way out.

But in what direction was _out_?

Epworth was asking himself that question fearfully. There were four
directions, and innumerable caverns penetrating the lighted chambers.
Only one of these passageways would lead back to their gliders.

He looked around at the frowning spear-tubes of the crickets
apprehensively.




CHAPTER XX

Mysterious Cavern Lamps


Epworth surveyed the chamber carefully. Behind the throne, about three
hundred feet distant, he saw one of the innumerable holes that pierced
the crater in all directions. There were few crickets between the
throne and this hole, and he inwardly decided that it would be the
best way out of the dilemma.

But he did not fool himself. He realized that once inside of that hole
he would again be in a corridor of death and darkness.

“Still,” he cogitated, “there is no possible chance of escaping in any
other way. We will at least be temporarily freed of cricket masters.”

“Follow me,” he urged in a low voice, “and, Billy, be sure to bring
the little girl. Joan can look out for herself.”

Lifting Queen Carza in his arms, holding her pressed tightly against
his chest with his right arm, and keeping a tear gun against her head,
he slid from the throne, and ran hurriedly across the chamber.

“Stop him!” Toplinsky roared in a loud voice. “St——”

“Dry up, Toplinsky, if you want to keep this girl whole. If you keep
your mouth shut I promise you that she shall not be hurt.”

Toplinsky quieted down, and waved the crickets and pigmies back. This
enabled the four to gain the dark passage. Unhesitatingly Epworth
plunged into the yawning darkness. As he and his companions
disappeared Queen Carza sent out a wild shout. She was being dragged
along with little regard for her queenly disposition, and she was
angry; not afraid. Wicked though she was, she knew no fear.

Her shout was answered by a squealing sound from her pigmy soldiers,
and scarcely were they inside of the hole when four pigmies dashed in
to aid their queen. They leaped upon the backs of Joan, Billy, and
Moawha. This caused Joan to send out a cry of alarm.

Epworth turned to go to Joan’s assistance. He could see the pigmies
plainly, although in the darkness they could not see him. As he
wheeled, Queen Carza wriggled out of his arms, and started to run.
Epworth did not stop her. He wanted to assist Joan; he did not wish to
injure the queen. Calmly he permitted the queen to escape.

But Joan did not need his help. Throwing off the pigmy with an effort
she darted back into the cave. By this time the struggle had carried
all of them back into the darkness, and they were hammering away at
each other in the gloom. At least the Americans were in the darkness,
but soon the pigmies demonstrated that they could see. This was
another surprise to Epworth but he had not time to hunt an explanation
at the moment.

Billy, at the outset, knocked his man out and turned to aid Moawha.
This was hard to do as he could not distinguish her from the other
pigmies in the gloom. The pigmies took advantage of this, and leaping
on the girl began to drag her back to the throne room.

“Help!” she screamed, and Billy rushed to her aid, pulling her away
from the pigmies who held her.

At this moment the crickets came crowding in from the throne room.

“Run for it!” Epworth shouted.

“No, no,” Moawha answered a little wildly. “Not yet. You will be lost
in the cave. Wait for me, and keep the crickets back.”

While they did not understand her purpose, Epworth and Billy stood up
side by side to fight. They were now far back in the cave and the
gloom was so dense they could barely see; but they knew that the
crickets were advancing. They could hear their silent, snoopy hands
creeping softly over the stones.

Moawha ran up to Epworth, and slammed something over his head.

“Adjust it to your eyes,” she whispered. “Hasten, and then rush the
crickets to stop them, while I cover the heads of the others.”

Epworth was too surprised to speak. A second and he was in terrible
darkness, thinking that they would be lost in a hole that wound around
in gloom forever; when Moawha left him he could see in front of him a
red world—Joan was red, Billy was red, Moawha was red; the crickets,
stealing up out of the darkness to leap upon them, were red.

He did not pause to inquire the explanation. Leaping forward he
crashed into the crickets with his automatic, showering surprise and
fear at them. There were only a few, and when they heard the awful
roar of his gun they fled backward to wait for their companions.

“Come,” Moawha cried. “They will be on us in a moment in great
numbers.”

Recklessly they fled down the dark passage—dark no longer; but now a
stream of crimson and a flash of red. Presently they came to three
intersections. It was no time to choose. Behind them came the musical
chirps of the crickets, and the whistles of the pigmy men. They darted
into the left hand passage, and hurried onward. When they had gone
some distance they looked back. The crickets had arrived at the
intersection and were dividing into three parties. They intended to
take no chances. Faster than race horses they ran on and on; they came
to a deep chasm, forty feet wide, and Moawha stopped with a cry of
despair.

“Lift her in your arms and jump,” Epworth urged as Billy also paused.
“The crickets are behind us.”

“But—but——”

Epworth lifted Joan, ran back a short distance in the cave, and
running forward with all of his speed, leaped into the air. He sailed
across the chasm like a bird.

“You can do it,” he called back to Billy. “Remember that this gravity
is twelve times less than the earth, and that you can do things that
you would not dream of on the earth.”

Billy picked Moawha up in his arms. Her heart was beating wildly, and
with a gentle hand he smoothed her face. She caught his hand and held
it, and he jumped. For a second his heart was in his mouth, and then
he dropped by the side of Epworth and Joan.

But the chasm did not stop the crickets. It only served to delay the
advance of the Americans, and in a split second they were again
chasing down a long corridor as fast as they could go. Now, they
discovered that they could outrun the crickets. It was a long
straight-a-way, and they could leap many feet in a single jump.

They came to another division of the passage, and Epworth started to
take the left hand. Joan stopped him.

“I may be wrong,” she said, “but I seem to have a natural orientation
that tells me that our planes are in this direction.”

“All dark holes in the moon look alike to me,” Epworth responded. “We
turn to the right to suit you.”

There was a delay, and they were not far down this new cavern when
they heard the patter of the crickets behind them. Now the cavern
twisted and turned; now the crickets began to chirp their musical
notes of triumph.

And their hearts went cold.

Joan stumbled, and Epworth stopped to help her. When he raised her and
looked upward he could not see the roof. Ahead he saw a wide open
space. When he looked to the right he heard a loud chirping of
crickets but could not see them. In other words, in one direction he
could see; in the other he could not.

“I can’t understand that,” he exclaimed aloud. “Why can I not see to
the right?”

“Because on your left there is darkness, and on the right there is
light. The light comes from the great cricket chamber. We have run
around in a half circle and are coming again to the hive of crickets.”

As Moawha spoke she lifted the head gear from Epworth’s head.

“I still do not understand.”

“Very simple,” Joan put in impatiently. “You are wearing——”

“Cavern lights,” Moawha explained. “An invention of the Taunan pigmies
which enables them to travel through the darkest recesses of the moon.
So far my people have not been able to make them.”

Epworth looked around thoughtfully.

“I believe this is where we left our gliders,” he exclaimed hopefully.
“Out toward the center of this ashy floor.”

“Joy be!” Joan shouted. “Put on your head gear, and let’s get to them.
I am certainly fed up of crickets.”

At this moment there came a warning chirp from their right. They did
not wait to ascertain how near the crickets were. Bolting forward
Epworth lifted Moawha in his arms and, followed by Joan and Billy, ran
rapidly across the deep ashes. They found their gliders almost by a
miracle. Joan drew the shoulder straps over her head and shoulders and
fastened them around her waist, and turned to Epworth.

“Let me have Moawha,” she entreated. “Billy will be too heavy in my
plane.”

Without a word Epworth placed the girl in Joan’s glider, and darted to
his own.

“Now, Billy, you and I together.”

While Billy was mounting Epworth’s shoulders, Joan placed Moawha’s
arms around her waist and supported her on the bar of the bicycle
power.

“All ready,” she called in a whisper. “Let us run together.”

“Circle around in a wide circle until I can find my second
flashlight,” Epworth suggested. “And——”

He was interrupted by a rush of crickets that began to swarm around
him. But he made no mistake. Finding an opening he ran forward and
jumped into the air, and began to work his pedals vigorously.

The glider went forward but did not rise. When he put his feet down to
make another start he could not touch ground.

He had jumped off into a bottomless crater, and instead of going up,
weighted with Billy, he was going down.

“Julian! Julian!” he heard a faint voice call. “Where are you? We are
falling, falling.”

With a dexterous movement Epworth whirled the glider in the direction
of Joan’s voice. Presently he saw her, and gave devout thanks for the
crater lamps. True she was red; the plane was red; the whole wide open
space was red; but he could see her.

“The explanation is simple,” he explained as he drew near her
fluttering plane. “Keep the glider on an even keel; never let it turn
over. With the weight of the girl you cannot fly but you can make a
parachute out of the glider and descend slowly. Take it easy. That is
the best we can do at present.”

               *       *       *       *       *

He did not tell her that his heart was blue with dark forebodings;
that he believed that they would never again see the sun or get out of
the awful darkness that encompassed them.

The only hope that he could hold out to himself was that they were
wearing a peculiar head gear that enabled them to see what was going
on around them notwithstanding the darkness. It was little to build
hope upon but he grasped it, and determined that he would go down into
this strange, terrible world with as much courage as possible.




CHAPTER XXI

Crickets Swarming to War


On and on, fluttering side by side, the two gliders descended,
circling hour after hour with sufficient motor power to keep them from
tumbling into a crack up, but continuing steadily downward—slowly but
surely. There was no possible escape. They would go on downward
forever or fall through the moon.

Through the mysterious cavern lamps which Moawha had taken from the
heads of the pigmies who attacked them in the cave they could see
quite plainly although everything appeared very strange. For a long
time Epworth watched the red planes of Joan’s glider anxiously but
finally ascertaining that she was following him closely and imitating
his movements he turned to Billy.

“Well, young fellow, give an account of yourself. We went to the cave
to find you and you had disappeared and taken with you all of our
supplies.”

“I disappeared but I did not take the supplies,” Billy replied. “Some
fairy got the supplies. I expect if you raked his back you would find
a cricket.”

And then he told of what had happened to him. Shortly after Epworth
and Joan went to the Aerolite, while he was standing by his glider
working with the bicycle pedals an army of crickets came out of the
rear of the cave and surrounded him so stealthily that he did not know
they were present until they had made him a prisoner. They carried him
back into the cave, moved the supplies quickly, and closed up the cave
with heavy boulders. Then they took him on a long journey through
numerous and winding dark caves, conveying him on the back of two of
the crickets bound hands and feet.

“Boy,” Billy whispered in awe, “that journey was ghostly. Two large
crickets lined up on each side of me, and believe it or not their
backs gave out a phosphorous glow that lighted up that cavern, and
made the journey easy for my captors. I have been wondering all this
time how it was that two crickets could give out a glow and the others
were black as midnight.”

“Easy, lad. They had rubbed some of that phosphorous mineral on their
backs. A mineral powerful enough to light up a whole crater miles in
circumference could readily be utilized as a personal light.”

“I’m handing it to you, boy,” Billy exclaimed admiringly. “You’ve got
a brain. I never thought of that.”

“Go on with your story,” Epworth retorted smiling, “and do not ask
questions.”

“I didn’t ask a single question,” Billy snorted. “You butted in with
an answer when I was merely stating a fact. However there is not much
more to the story. I was carried to a large chamber, dumped on the
floor and left. When I was able to look around Moawha was near me
similarly trussed up. My hands being small I after a time succeeded in
working the cords over my wrists and then cut myself free, and freed
Moawha. So far so good. But it was too good to last. About the time we
were ready to try to sneak out of the chamber two pigmies entered. I
shot at them like a rocket but could not get to them in time to stop
the singing chirp they sent out calling the crickets to their
assistance. Of course I put up all the fight that was in me, and
Moawha helped quite a bit but they were too much for us, and again we
were bound and lashed until it was impossible to break loose. In this
condition we were carried to the chamber where you found us, and
shortly after we were thrown on the floor Toplinsky was brought in.
Here we were held prisoners until you came, our food consisting of
dried fruits and water. Not so bad but Lady Baltimore cake and ham
and—would go mighty fine for a change.”

He glanced ahead, and jammed the rudder quickly.

“Watch where you are going,” he bawled out. “You came mighty near
wrecking us on that sharp extension of the crater.”

The glider turned abruptly, and dropped rapidly for several seconds
before Epworth could level out.

“What is getting the matter with these things on my eyes?” Billy
demanded petulantly. “It is getting dark. I can’t see a thing below
us, and ten minutes ago I could see the walls of the crater easily.”

Epworth stared around. It seemed that they had been suddenly engulfed
in a gloom that the night spectacles would not penetrate. Had their
cavern lamps suddenly grown useless from age, or had they been broken
in some way? It was an annoying interrogation. To go on, and on, and
on, through everlasting darkness was appalling, fearful, mentally
destructive.

“Moawha says remove your cavern lamps,” Joan called out. “We must be
drifting into some kind of a light.”

When Epworth removed the head gear, and carefully placed it around his
neck so that he could quickly replace it on his head, he discovered
that the walls of the crater were no longer visible although there was
an eery, mysterious light all around. It was not a phosphorous glow
because there were no rocks or vegetation to give out such a glow. It
was a dim light of day, and they were falling through space.

When he looked downward he saw no land.

“Heavens,” he muttered, “we have dropped entirely through the moon,
and are we now sailing out into space?”

They fell a mile before the interrogation was answered. Then the light
grew brighter and they saw beneath them trees, rivers, green rolling
hills.

“Heaven be praised!” Joan cried out with a shout of joy. “At last we
are getting somewhere. It must be Moawha’s home. She was laughing,
chattering, and cooing to me in an unknown tongue.”

They landed gently on a high hill overlooking a large valley but the
moment she got out of the glider and looked around, Moawha lost her
enthusiasm, and grasping Joan by the arm ran hurriedly to a dense
thicket of undergrowth to hide.

“Come with us,” she called in a low tone to Epworth and Billy. “Hide
the gliders and then hunt cover.”

They followed her instructions, and when they were hidden in the
undergrowth, she caught Epworth by the arm, tiptoed to the edge of the
thicket and pointed down into a part of the valley he had not seen.
His eyes opened wide at what he saw.

Ten thousand pigmy men were marching across the field in military
formation, drilling, shouldering arms, charging an imaginary foe, and
practicing all the arts of war preparatory to engaging in a sham
battle.

“Queen Carza’s soldiers,” Moawha explained briefly. “If we are
captured we will be taken back to the cricket hive. Carza’s soldiers
have succeeded in gaining a complete mastery over the crickets. They
fight us, kill us, and give our bodies to the crickets to eat, and
they pay the crickets by giving them fruits and vegetables. For
thousands of years they have been doing this, and when they succeeded
in kidnaping me they probably demoralized my fighting men, and are now
preparing to make a bold attack on them. With the help of this great
giant that came with you I am fearfully afraid they will make my
people slaves, although there are not more than fifty thousand
pigmies, and there are two million Selinites. With the crickets to aid
them, however, they have a larger fighting force than we have.”

Without replying Epworth returned to the gliders, and pushed them
deeper beneath the foliage of the thicket and planted limbs over, and
around them.

“First,” he remarked, “we must eat, and then sleep. Nature can go very
little farther.”

They lunched from the supplies left in the gliders, and then stretched
out beneath the undergrowth. Joan thought she would never sleep again
because of the nervous strain but in this she was mistaken. She was,
in fact, the first to close her eyes.

They were awakened by a loud chirping of crickets and a whizzing sound
in the air. Moawha started to jump up excitedly but Epworth stopped
her.

“No,” he commanded in a low voice, “lie still. We may be discovered.”
Moawha burst out into tears.

“What is the matter?” Joan asked solicitously.

“The crickets are coming out of the caverns in swarms to attack my
people.”

She pointed upward. When Joan looked up she saw a black cloud sweeping
down from above and shooting far out over the land.

“They are all armed,” Epworth observed thoughtfully, “and to——”

“Get to my people we will have to pass through them, over them or
around them,” Moawha finished, and then added naively: “May I not
expect you two gallant soldiers to aid me in defending my people?”

“You can sure count on me,” Billy asserted quickly. “I am for you,
Moawha, as long as there is life in my body.”

Epworth grinned, and glanced at Joan. Joan’s eyes twinkled merrily.

“Most assuredly, Moawha, we will help you,” she replied for Epworth.
“To the bitter end but we will hope that it will be a happy end.”

“If your king will help me my people will win,” Moawha declared
emphatically. “He is a greater man than the giant.”

She put her hand timidly on Epworth’s shoulder, and looked into his
eyes inquiringly. The young man turned his head in embarrassment.

“You can count on me,” he replied soberly. “But when you put me up
against Toplinsky you are making a mistake. He is unquestionably the
greatest scientist, and the most ruthless robber and scoundrel that
ever lived.”

“And that is where Julian has him beat,” Joan put in. “God is on the
side of right, and Julian is the kind of man who fights always on the
side of right so we are bound to win.”

“G’wan, Joan, you embarrass me. Look upward, and note what we are up
against.”

Another cloud of crickets was shooting across the sky, and now they
could see Toplinsky and Queen Carza riding in state on the backs of
four of the largest insects.




CHAPTER XXII

The Wheezing Ramph


They traveled as fast as they could, and when tired they hid in some
cave or secret nook. From Moawha the three Americans learned that the
country she called Taunan was not very large, the population
consisting of about one hundred and fifty thousand men, women and
children. Her country, the Land of the Selinites, was much larger, and
had a population of three million. It extended from a space on the
south, which was open, and had never been explored, to another open
space on the northeast. It had perpetual light but Moawha did not know
where the light came from, and had never heard of the sun. Both open
spaces on the south and northeast she said, were guarded by cricket
armies under the direction of the Taunans.

When Moawha made this explanation Epworth jumped to the conclusion
that he had solved a problem that bothered the earth astronomers.

“Her country,” he explained to his companions, “is a long narrow
stretch of land, about the size of Mexico, stretching from Mount
Leibnitz at the south pole to Mount Tycho. The sun shines all the time
on Leibnitz, and I conclude, through a hole in the moon entirely
across the Land of the Selinites, and out of Mount Tycho, which gives
that Mountain its mysterious bright light. If I understand her
correctly the light does not come in a straight line from the sun, and
they do not see the sun because the edge of the crater of Leibnitz
hides it from view. The Taunans, however, are so located that they can
see the sun and much of our world.”

“Fair enough,” Billy put in. “Now let’s get somewhere.”

As he spoke they were crossing a long bridge made of heavy stones
which spanned a deep chasm. At the beginning of their journey across
the Taunan country they had encircled many cities and had been forced
to avoid many groups of men and women but now they were going through
a country that was greatly broken by splits in the earth—all of which
were bridged with strong, substantial masonry that exhibited great
masonic skill on the part of the pigmies. This section of the country
was not as populous as the fertile and alluvial fields of natural
vegetation and luscious fruit, and the further they advanced toward
what Moawha termed the borderland, the rougher the country became.

In response to Billy’s suggestion they increased their speed, relaxed
their vigilance, and were halfway across the structure talking in loud
voices when they heard a shout behind them. Curiously they whirled
around. The light was so strong that they had little difficulty in
making out the forms of a hundred or more pigmies rushing on the
bridge behind them.

“Say, Julian,” Billy announced whimsically, “I haven’t any business on
this bridge—none whatever.”

He started on a run for the end of the bridge and the others joined
him. They did not go far. In front of them bobbed up another small
army of pigmies, and from the side of the structure another horde of
enemies sprang into life out of the shadows that had obscured them.

“An ambush as sure as life,” Epworth exclaimed.

“And we cannot jump off of the bridge without jumping into a chasm
that goes down probably for forty miles,” Joan added. “What shall we
do?”

“Fight!” Billy responded, making a dive at the nearest line of
pigmies. “Give them all we have.”

Epworth swung his strong arms into action and sent four of the pigmies
head over heels. Joan drew her automatic and whacked one in the face;
four pigmies caught Moawha, and she screamed. Billy answered the cry
for help by knocking the four pigmies down.

It annoyed them to think that up to this time they had eluded the
inhabitants and had grown so careless as to permit discovery and an
ambush.

With an angry snarl Epworth clenched his teeth and drove straight into
the spears, dropped to a stooped position, caught two pigmy soldiers
by their legs, whirled them around his head, and clubbed them back.
Then the pigmies closed in on them like a bed of ants, caught them by
their legs, arms, and waists and began to pull them down.

But at this moment, when capture seemed certain, the Taunans suddenly
released them, sent up a shrill shout of terror, leaped to their feet,
and fled as if possessed. Taking advantage of this Epworth staggered
to his feet with Billy by his side, and looked around to ascertain
what had caused the flight of their enemies. What they saw caused them
to stop in horror and Moawha to scream in wild terror.

“A ramph! a ramph!” she cried. “Run!”

She pointed with staring eyes at the side of the bridge on the north.
Along the edge of the structure, with its head lifted above the
railing and its long, lizard-like body stretched in scaly coils two
hundred feet, was the most terrifying monster they had ever seen. It
had ten legs, and elongated tail, and its movements were as swift as
thought, silent as death and terrifying; and its three eyes, as large
as saucers, glared vicious red at them in a head fifteen feet wide.
But it was not altogether the appearance of the animal that frightened
them.

In its deep, cavern-like mouth, glowing a phosphorescent light, was a
shouting pigmy, crying loudly for help.

“Mercy,” Joan cried, “that is the kind of an animal we fought in the
cave.”

“They live in the darkest parts of the caves,” Moawha gasped, “and
never come out unless they come to eat people.”

Epworth did not wait for a technical description of the Thing that was
as big as four elephants. He had brought his Police Positive pistol
with him from the glider, and a tear gun. The tear gun being packed
away for future emergency was hard to get but he jerked his police
gun, and began to fire, aiming with certainty and firing slowly.

The first shot struck the center eye of the monster. The eye flicked
out, and the Thing paused in its efforts to swallow the pigmy. Again
Epworth’s pistol rang out. This time the bullet crashed into the right
eye. The long, slender tail began to lash the bridge until it knocked
some of the stones from position and sent them into the chasm. Again
Epworth fired. The last eye was destroyed.

With a wheezing, siren-snarl the monster dropped the pigmy, lowered
its head and began to wave it around in the air. That it was now blind
was patent, and Epworth pushed his companions back several feet. The
giant body began to fold up, coil, and roll forward like a rolling
snake; its mighty paws went up into the air, and the front right paw
started downward. Directly beneath the paw the little pigmy that it
had held in its mouth stumbled and fell. If the paw came down it would
certainly crush the pigmy into a mass.

Swift as an eagle, without counting his own danger, Epworth bounded
forward, caught the pigmy’s clothing and jerked him backward. He was
just in time. The paw descending struck slightly on the pigmy’s face
and drew the blood.

But the animal now knew not which way to turn. For several seconds it
floundered around, opened and closed its enormous mouth, and wheezed
until the listeners felt their blood run cold. Finally, still wheezing
it twisted off the bridge and plunged down into the chasm.

Epworth released the pigmy, and placed him on his feet. Frightened
into a frenzy the little man sped away.

“Seems to be in a hurry,” Billy observed dryly.

“I can’t blame him,” Joan snorted. “I have a hasty mind myself.
Suppose we travel.”

They gained the end of the bridge but the pigmies in their rear,
regaining their courage, followed. Like wild men they ran to get away
but Moawha was too slow and Epworth lifted her in his arms. She was
heavy for a pigmy but Epworth managed to keep ahead of his pursuers.
Just ahead of them appeared a long line of trees. If they could get
into the forest there was a chance of them eluding the little men with
their spears.

With thankful hearts they darted under the trees, and dashed pantingly
into the forest. Their thankfulness came to an end quickly. The moment
they were beneath the trees an army of pigmies dropped out of the
branches on their heads, their shoulders, their legs, and before they
had time to resist they were pulled to the ground, and their hands
tied behind their backs.




CHAPTER XXIII

Sons of The Great Selina


With grunts of satisfaction the pigmies rose to their feet, punched
them slyly in the ribs with their sharp-pointed spears, and indicated
that they must get up and march. It was not to be a very long march.

Hidden away in a deep recess of mountains they saw a large building
constructed with a stupendous round tube pointing at the sky where the
earth was now shining with soft, refulgent splendor. In front of the
building were many stone steps, arranged artistically, and forming a
long stairway that led upward to an opening supported by large white
pillars, ostentatiously decorated with painting and signs. Surrounded
by an armed bodyguard they were marched up these steps, and into a big
round chamber.

Their guards marched them up to a large, glittering disk in the center
of the chamber, and stopped. Beyond the disk were twenty seats; in
front of the seats there was a long, narrow platform. As they came to
a stop the disk in front of them began to whirl. At first it was
noiseless motion; then there came a slight scratching sound; followed
by a voice.

“Glory be!” Billy shouted. “A good old American is talking.”

But when he heard the words his enthusiasm faded.

“This is KFI, Los Angeles, California,” the disk declared. “We will
now hear from Professor Ainslee, who will talk to us on the condition
of the moon.”

The next second, Epworth’s old college classmate stepped on the disk,
looked into the microphone, and began to talk in a perfectly natural
tone.

“They’ve got the old earth skinned a city block,” Billy asserted in
disgust. “Look at that, will you. They not only hear but they see.”

The disk stopped sharply, Ainslee disappeared. The disk started again
and the City of Los Angeles, silent and still flashed on the disk.
Again it stopped, and for several seconds they stared at nothing. Then
a slight noise on their left attracted their attention. When they
glanced around twenty pigmies were filing into the room and seating
themselves in the chairs behind the platform.

They were different in appearance to any they had yet seen. While the
Taunan soldiers had large heads—entirely too large for their
bodies—these men had great round bulbous balls stuck on stringy necks,
and slender, ghastly bodies, showing that they were of a different
race.

“Sons of the Great Selina,” Moawha whispered in awe. “They are the
smartest and greatest men on our sphere. It is said that there are
only one hundred of them in their race.”

For some time the twenty bulbous-headed men sat gazing at the
Americans in silence. Their gaze was penetrating, far-reaching,
cutting.

“You are earth men,” the leader finally remarked in slow, manufactured
English. “We saw you coming in the disk, and placed a trap for you.
How did you get here?”

“We came in a flying machine,” Epworth answered, determined to put on
a bold front in the hope that they had not heard of Toplinsky and
would release them. “Who are you?”

The pigmy frowned. It was an ugly, dangerous contraction of a peculiar
round face, and it made him look fiendish.

“We compose the council of Lunar,” he said softly, his eyebrows
stretching across his moon-shaped face like a rainbow. “We are the
brains of this world. We make the laws, we furnish the thought, we are
the scientists who visualized the great world out in space and brought
its language to our people; we rule through Carza, our queen, who was
taught from childhood to obey our slightest command. Just as soon as
we capture the Land of the Selinites we shall be complete rulers of
the world.”

“You are quite an honorable and distinguished body,” Epworth agreed,
bowing courteously, “but I fear that you are not destined to rule this
world much longer.”

The leader glanced at him inquiringly, and when he saw that Epworth
was not making a military move against him, smiled gently.

“I am afraid that you will have very little to say about it,” he
suggested mildly.

“You need not worry about me,” Epworth added with another bow. “Just
wait until Toplinsky gets his hooks in.”

“Toplinsky?”

The leader thought over this for some time, and then consulted his
companions. Turning to the soldiers he issued a sharp command. The
soldiers responded by seizing Epworth, pushing him close to the leader
of the council, and dropping a metal cap over his head. This cap they
connected by wires with one the leader placed on his own head.

“This little cap,” the councilman explained, “is a thought
transferring device. It will keep you from lying, and enable me to
read all your thoughts. Now tell me about this Toplinsky.”

“Have you not heard of him? I should think by this time his connection
with your queen would be known everywhere in your land. Your queen has
made him her king, and together they expect to conquer the Selinites.”

“I had heard that the queen had taken a consort but——”

“A great giant, and a scientist of mighty ability. He is the man who
started your world to turning around.”

“Started our world to turn—a man?”

Very calmly Epworth told Toplinsky’s story, permitting his mind to
revert back to the camp in the Arctic Circle, and the manner in which
Toplinsky had shot water at the moon in a great projectile, and
followed it in fifteen minutes with another projectile of liquid air
to prevent the immediate evaporation of the water and in order to
build up an atmosphere on the moon. The council leader saw it all
flashing through the American’s brain, and in turn Epworth saw fear,
dread, hate, envy, creep into the bulbous brain in front of him—a fear
that this giant scientist from the earth would gain supreme control
over the Taunans, and eliminate the council of the Sons of the Great
Selina.

“You have reason to fear him,” Epworth remarked quickly. “I do not
like Toplinsky, I am constantly at war with him, but I hand it to him
as being the biggest thing in the way of science I ever read about. In
his scheme to make the moon inhabitable he shot the rarest vegetable
and fruit seed from the earth, he planned a rotation of your little
planet that would give it a Garden of Eden climate, he timed his
projectiles absolutely accurately to prevent the evaporation of the
water he sent up, and he sent nitrates and fertilizer to assure the
growth of his vegetation. When he was selected by Queen Carza as her
consort he boasted to me that he would soon be the absolute monarch of
this world.”

The councilman removed his head gear, and motioned to the soldiers to
remove the cap over Epworth’s head. Before this was done however
Epworth saw the thought flash through the pigmy’s brain that he must
do something to rid himself of Toplinsky’s power.

“You will have to act quickly,” the young American said slyly.
“Toplinsky is a fast worker.”

“What are your intentions?” the pigmy demanded angrily. “Why are you
sneaking around our country?”

Epworth made no effort to disguise the purpose. He realized that it
would be useless with the thought exposer again on the councilman’s
head.

“I intend to keep him from conquering your world. I am now on the way
to help Moawha and her army keep the crickets out of the Land of the
Selinites.”

“Just what can you do against this great scientist?”

The pigmy did not attempt to keep the sarcasm out of his voice.
Epworth shook his head.

“I do not know. I can only hope for the best.”

The cap was removed from the American’s head, and the councilman
leaned forward nonchalantly.

“You are a fool—straight out in the open with your thoughts, and I
doubt if you get anywhere but we will try to see what your giant
friend is doing at this moment, and then compare notes.”

He stood up, drew aside a curtain, and exposed to view a bright
silvered sheet of metal about four feet square. In front of this had
been placed a peculiar machine with a projecting orifice connecting
with the sheet with numerous wires made of glittering copper. With a
slight movement of his hand the pigmy pushed a switch and a cylinder
began to revolve inside of the machine shooting pictures on the silver
square. These pictures were entirely lunar, and showed houses, land,
people.

“By this machine,” the pigmy explained, “we discovered that you were
approaching our retreat. Now watch for the giant.”

The interior of a large house flashed in front of his eyes. Thousands
of pigmies with large heads and small bodies were running to and from
working industriously. Among them, towering almost to the roof, was
Toplinsky. On his shoulders, with her copper legs locked around his
neck, was Queen Carza. She was playing with his coarse red hair and
bending over frequently to caress him with her cheek.

As his figure came prominently into view the giant stooped and dropped
a soft vegetable fabric into a large vat. Then he called to several
pigmies, and instructed him to follow his example. The pigmies hung
back timidly for a moment, and the queen shouted at them angrily. They
obeyed her quickly.

“She has decided control over them,” Epworth remarked gently, “and
Toplinsky, if I mistake not, has complete mastery of the queen. When
he desires to be nice that giant can make a post believe he is in love
with it.”

The councilman frowned.

“It seems so,” he admitted. “What is the mighty giant doing?”

“He is putting a soft vegetable fabric into a vat full of nitric and
sulphuric acid.”

“I can see that, of course. But why?”

“He is making gun cotton—a high explosive that can be used in the
place of gun powder. He contemplates blowing up Moawha’s people, and
all their cities.”

“With that stuff?”

Toplinsky was removing some of the gun cotton from the vat at the
moment.

“Yes, with that stuff he can blow off the side of a mountain.”

Epworth spoke quietly but he was greatly excited. Toplinsky was making
rapid strides. It had been only three days since they had escaped from
the crickets, and during that time the giant had put enough men to
work to make guns and manufacture a goodly supply of gun cotton and
powder. If he expected to aid Moawha’s people he would have to hurry.
And how could he hurry when he was a prisoner?

The big-headed pigmy shut off the pictures, and turned soberly to the
other members of the council, speaking to them rapidly in an unknown
tongue. As one man they acquiesced in his conclusions.

“Free them!” the leader commanded, pointing at Epworth and his
companions. “We wish to form an alliance with you. We have heard that
you destroyed a ramph, and rescued one of our men from his jaws. That
was a kind deed, and I am especially grateful because the man rescued
was my son. But it is not gratitude that prompts me to this act. We
want to see this man Toplinsky defeated in his purposes. We would
rather leave things as they are than fall into the power of a mighty
monster like this. Hence we are going to free you, and aid you to get
across the light gap to the Land of the Selinites.”

He led them to a secret corner of the chamber, pushed aside a large
stone, and showed them four cricket shells.

“Get into them,” he commanded. “They have been prepared for disguises,
and if you use caution they will hide you from the soldiers. My son,
the man you rescued from the ramph, will guide you.”

The four greatly harassed adventurers obeyed, and soon four crickets,
guided by a pigmy soldier, left the Observatory of the Sons of the
Great Selina, and somewhat clumsily made their way toward the border
land, avoiding traffic and observation as much as possible.




CHAPTER XXIV

Behind a Copper Wall


The sun was sending its rays obliquely into the hole of Taunan when
the four disguised crickets, still guided by the pigmy soldier, passed
through a sleeping camp of crickets composing an army that was
besieging the mountain pass into the Land of the Selinites.
Notwithstanding the fact that the crickets had out guards well
trained, their disguises enabled them to reach the beginning of a deep
ravine that led up to a stretch of copper wire spread across the
mountain to keep the crickets from getting into the Land of Selinites.
This wire was an inch thick and meshed in six inches. It extended up
into the sky as far as the eye could reach, and behind it they could
see dimly a vast army of small men armed with copper axes, bows and
arrows, spears and sharp lances. They were also enclosed in copper
armor.

In the past, Moawha informed them, this armor had proved a great
protection in battle but she was now afraid of the new methods of
warfare that Toplinsky would introduce.

“And well may you be afraid,” Joan said. “But fortunately there has
not yet been a serious attack on the wall, and if you leave things to
Julian I am sure he will save your people.”

“G’wan,” Billy snorted indignantly. “I haven’t gone anywhere, and I’m
something of a fighter myself.”

Again they discovered that they were talking too loud. Their guide,
when he pointed to the wall, disappeared, and now, when they heard a
chirping sound behind them, they turned apprehensively. Their fears
were warranted. A band of crickets was entering the ravine behind
them, and hailing them. As they did not understand the cricket
chirpings they decided to ignore them.

They hopped quickly toward the wall. Their movements were clumsy, the
shells which covered their backs were heavy, and the sharp eyes of the
crickets discovered that they were not what they represented
themselves to be. A sharp, shrill, terrifying chirp went out, and the
crickets rushed at them in a body, brandishing their sharp pronged
spears.

Putting forth all their efforts they rushed toward the wall. The
crickets pursued, chirping angrily, and gradually drawing nearer. That
they would be overtaken was obvious.

“Throw off the shells, and run for it,” Epworth urged. “Hurry.”

He was obeyed, and soon the four were fast-footing over the uneven
ground. They gained some but in discarding their disguises they lost
much of their original position, and the crickets began to hop
dangerously near.

At this moment curious faces were thrust against the copper wall on
the other side. Moawha shouted at them in her language. At first they
did not answer, and several crickets hopped in front of her.

Epworth and Billy acted in concert, firing their pistols. This brought
them to a stop.

Shoving Moawha and Joan to the front the two men defended the rear.

“Call to your friends to open the wall,” Epworth shouted. “Let them
know in as few words as possible who you are.”

The Selinites heard Moawha’s cries, recognized her, and with loud
shouts of joy, threw open a gate, and rushed out in a body and drove
the crickets back. Moawha jumped through the wall opening and pulled
Joan with her; Billy and Epworth followed, and the wall door was
slammed and fastened.

With a deep sigh of joy Moawha fell on her knees and extended her
hands, palms open upward. That she was offering a prayer to God for
her deliverance was obvious, and Billy uncovered his head and stood
reverently by her side.

While Epworth was just as thankful he was a man of action. His first
observation told him that under the leadership of Toplinsky the
crickets and Taunans would walk through the copper mesh with wire
cutters very easily. The wire, while strong enough to hurl back the
bodies of the crickets, could be readily cut.

“Come,” he urged. “We have little time to lose. We must put your
borderland in a condition to stand a siege.”

The Selinites were crowding around Moawha, and singing songs of joy,
quite plainly establishing her claims to being their lost princess.
With an impatient gesture Epworth caught her hand, and started down
the incline toward the city he saw not five miles distant. The
Selinites objected.

“Inform them that they must obey me implicitly,” Epworth instructed.
“Tell them that there is grave danger from a new and mysterious
source, and that action cannot be delayed. If they wish to hold a
reception for you it should come later.”

Moawha obeyed, and the American, lifting her in his strong arms, ran
hurriedly down the incline to the city. Going five miles on the moon,
it must be remembered, is easier than going half a mile on the earth,
and soon they were inside of the city, where they were met by a large
concourse of people who wanted to take Moawha out of Epworth’s hands.
But still holding her he pushed his way through the assemblage, and
went to a building that looked like a power house.

His guess was correct, and he deposited Moawha on the floor and ran to
a large coil of copper wire.

“Get busy, Billy,” he insisted anxiously. “This is an electric plant,
and we must use the juice to charge that copper wire wall, and lay a
mine for Toplinsky’s cricket army. If we can hold them outside for a
time—until we can get our breath—perhaps we will find a means of
pushing them back permanently.”

Billy, who was a splendid electrician, picked up another coil,
attached the wire to a generator, and began to unroll the wire toward
the top of the pass. The pigmies, crowding into the building, watched
them with annoyance. Who were these white giants with their queen?
What did they mean by short circuiting the industries of the city? Why
were they meddling with the central electric plant?

A dozen little men came up to Moawha and protested. Epworth paused in
his work to look at them. They were smaller in size than the Taunans
but were more perfectly built. On their bodies, about the size of an
eight year old boy, were handsomely formed heads, and pleasant,
friendly faces.

“Explain to them that we are going to stop all their machinery until
we can run electric juice into the wall that protects them from the
cricket army.”

The moment the Selinite scientists understood what the white giants
were doing they joined in the work with enthusiasm, and sent out a
call for help. Soon there were ten thousand small men rolling coils of
wire toward the copper fence between the two countries. Never before
had it entered their minds that they could make the wall deal death to
their enemies. All they had hoped for was to see them fly against the
mesh and rebound back.

In six hours the copper wall was electrically charged until its touch
meant a shock of death, and Epworth stopped to sleep. While he was
sleeping the Selinites recrowned Moawha queen. This was necessary
because there was a law in the land that if a ruler was absent a
certain length of time the crown was forfeited. Moawha had been a
prisoner months over the time but they had loved her so dearly that
hoping against hope they had not elected her successor.

Epworth was awakened by Joan and Moawha, both of whom were greatly
frightened.

“Come,” Moawha pleaded, “they are assaulting our wall—or rather
getting ready to.”

When the young man, accompanied by Billy, reached the scene, a great
army of crickets was rolling up the mountainside in military
formation. Epworth pushed into the Selinites at a critical moment. The
crickets came within twenty feet of the wall and stopped. The pigmies,
thinking that they were afraid of their spears and bows and arrows,
began to gibe them.

The answer came before Epworth could give instructions. It was in the
shape of a storm of lead from the front ranks of the crickets. It was
a terrifying volley. The bullets whistled through the six inch mesh of
copper and the Selinites were badly demoralized and fled in wild
disorder.

Epworth saw the blast of gun fire with passionate anger. It looked to
him like firing cannons at little children. Nevertheless he shouted
and made a desperate effort to rally the Selinites. But they would not
stop. Never before had they heard the report of a gun and although the
guns being used were small and of rifle character they had no
inclination to stay long to hear another discharge.

Urged on by their pigmy generals the crickets charged the wall. In
their long feelers, extending from their mouths were strong wire
cutters, and in their front arms they carried rifles and spears. For
the safety of the Selinites Epworth had turned on the electric current
only to see that it was in working condition and had turned it off
again. Now he gave the signal to charge the wall.

The signal was answered from the city just as the first ranks of
crickets slammed against the copper wire. The charge caught them and
hurled tons of them backward against their fellows, who crowded
against them with their wire cutters.

Again Epworth signaled to the city, and the juice was cut off.

Not understanding this mysterious power flashed against them a number
of Taunan officers approached the wire wall, and placed their hands on
it. Nothing happened, and with puzzled faces they commanded another
charge. Again Epworth signaled for the juice; again tons of crickets
butted against the wall only to be hurled back by the invisible force
of electricity.

For the second time the pigmy officers investigated the wall. It still
seemed perfectly harmless, and they mustered up their courage to the
point of ordering another attack. This time they threw an army of
crickets against the wall, pushing the nearest crickets forward to the
danger point with regiment after regiment.

The force of the movement was so severe that it bent the wall inward
but the electric current still held them back.

The pigmy leaders now became genuinely alarmed at the fall of so many
crickets, and drew the belligerent army back sullenly several hundred
yards. For a time they stood in battle array just beyond the reach of
the arrows from the wall, and waited until a messenger could be sent
back inland to Toplinsky.

“Ah, ha,” Toplinsky muttered to himself when he heard the news, “these
Selinites have recently received some scientific advice on war. I
wonder if it is possible that those two Americans escaped from the
caves, and landed here? If so——”

He clenched his right hand and put his left arm around Queen Carza’s
waist.

“It will not do, my great lord and master,” Carza whispered to him in
an undertone, “to permit the killing of so many crickets. See they are
piled up in heaps in front of that copper wall. I have led my people
to think that you can defeat the Selinites easily, and give them the
new green world with few fatalities. They are already mumbling to
themselves. There have been killed——”

“Twenty thousand, I should roughly estimate,” Toplinsky interrupted
abruptly. “They should have been more careful but I, the great Herman
Toplinsky, will teach these people much. Draw back the army for a
week, and at the end of that time I promise that there will be
something doing. We will go through that wall as if it were not
there.”




CHAPTER XXV

Gunpowder vs. Chlorine Gas


When the ranks of crickets dropped back, and established a great camp
within shooting distance of the copper wall, Epworth was puzzled for a
time to understand the object. Finally he concluded that Toplinsky was
not yet ready to start his heavy guns to battering down the wall. This
meant that the guns were not made.

“It will give me several days,” he told himself, “in which to prepare
and take an inventory of the war material on hand.”

“That Toplinsky is hatching something,” Joan said, coming up from the
city and looking over his shoulders as he was peering through the wall
at the encamped crickets.

“Not at this moment,” Epworth reasoned. “He is getting ready to blow
us out with gun cotton but he has not fully completed his
preparations.”

“Let us drive them away from the wall before he gets a chance,” Billy
suggested. “If we can make them draw back, or if we can defeat them
before he is ready to shoot we will be on an equal footing.”

“The only way to drive them off is to kill them!” Epworth replied
slowly, “and honestly, I do not like to do that.”

“They are not human beings,” Joan broke out snappily. “It will not be
any worse than destroying an ant bed. If these Selinites are to be
made happy they must be rid of this terrible menace.”

“I’ve got an idea,” Billy declared breathlessly. “Why not make a lot
of gliders, sail out there over the heads of the fighters and lay them
low with tear guns, spear thrusts, and arrows? True they can shoot a
little but I have an idea that they are not yet sufficient marksmen to
stop an army of men over their heads.”

“Fine idea. Call Moawha.”

Moawha was not far distant, and when Billy called she came running.

“I want five hundred thousand of your best workmen, and as many of
your bravest soldiers,” Epworth announced seriously. “I want them
quickly and I want the material that goes into one hundred thousand
gliders—two hundred thousand if we can get it. Rake your country
quickly.”

Moawha did not know what kind of material went into a glider but when
her scientists and expert mechanics appeared Epworth explained to them
what he wanted, and with the assistance of Billy and Joan, put a
glider together in five hours. When the glider was finished he sailed
it into the air, and explained its workings, how he pedaled it like a
bicycle, and the detail of manufacture. The pigmies proved very apt,
and the day had not closed before they were turning the sailing crafts
out rapidly. In three days they had fifty thousand, and were learning
to sail them.

While the Selinites were making gliders under the instructions and
guided by Billy, Epworth made a thorough search in the neighborhood
for a large salt deposit. He found it—a long stretch of waste land
which he reasoned had once been a small sea. With the help of the
Selinite scientists he extracted from the salt hundreds of tanks of
chlorine gas. By working feverishly he transferred this gas to the
fighting front while he had another body of Selinites making
chloroform guns. They were small and disappointing. When he first
thought of the chlorine gas his heart beat high with hope but this
hope was killed by an inability to construct a gas projectile that
would throw the gas beyond a point where it would not sweep back into
the face of his own men.

He was not certain but he thought that Toplinsky was laboring just as
rapidly as he was but he was quite sure that the scientist was working
entirely along the gun powder idea, and finally he developed an idea
of air attack with the chlorine that he was convinced would put him on
a good fighting footing although it did not promise such effect as
bombing with great airplanes or throwing gas from a swift moving
Zeppelin, or out of a huge cannon.

However he realized that this had narrowed down to a race between him
and Toplinsky, and the moment he felt that he had a successful weapon
he concluded to open the doors of the border wall and make an attack
on the cricket army.

On the evening of the sixth day he had fifty thousand gliders and as
many chloroform guns ready for use. By the end of the next day he
expected to add ten thousand more to his equipment. Of course he
measured time by his watch, which he had managed to keep. With sixty
thousand he would make the attack.

He was seated in a palatial room in the palace of Queen Moawha taking
a brief rest, and talking over his plans with his three companions
when the ground was shaken by a mighty roar—an explosion that
reverberated throughout the underground world. Epworth knew instantly
what it was but Moawha sprang up screaming with fear.

“Take it easy,” Billy soothed, putting his hand gently on her arm. “We
are still here.”

“W-w-what was it?” she cried hysterically. “Is the whole world blowing
up?”

“It is Toplinsky’s first big gun.”

“Run out to the gliders, and get the men in flying shape,” Epworth
commanded quietly. “I will get the gunners and have the gas ready.
Fortunately we have fifty thousand of the gliders armed, and the
aviators have some idea of what we intend to do. We must not waste a
second. Toplinsky will batter down that wire wall in ten minutes.”

“B-b-but,” Moawha hesitated.

“You have the only orders that will save your country. I am going to
make for the borderland, and see if I can keep them from coming in on
the women and children.”

He rushed out of the building, ran hurriedly to the house where the
gun aviators were waiting in case of a call, and sent them hurriedly
to join Billy and Moawha. Then he got one of the largest gliders,
strapped the planes to his shoulders, and lifted into the air. As he
whirled upward in a great circle another glider left the earth and
came rapidly toward him.

Who was following him without orders? He frowned. He had set a task
for himself. If he was killed Billy and Moawha could go on with their
fight and possibly win the war. This party who was following him was
getting in the way.

“Why are you trailing me?” he broke out angrily, slowing up a little
in his pedaling. “I gave explicit orders to——”

“I happen to be an individual who does not take orders.” He looked
around and found his sister, Joan, grinning at him. “I know that you
are flying off at a tangent for some purpose, and I want to help.”

“Women are always getting in the way,” he ejaculated, somewhat
annoyed. “I am going on a dangerous task, and you increase the
danger.”

“I am no weakling,” she answered sharply. “I am thrown into a strange
world without any friends except my brother. If he is killed I am left
alone. I do not want to be alone. I am sticking right by your side
until we find a resting spot where we can live without a constant
threat of death.”

They arrived at the summit of the pass. Before them, huddled together
like sheep, were many Selinite soldiers speeding toward their homes,
and throwing away their arms as they hurried along.

“Hold! Stop!” Epworth shouted from the air. “Do you want your women
and children to fall into the hands of these flesh-eating crickets?
Turn back, and be men. Help me hold the wall.”

“A demon is belching at us,” one of the men cried out in broken
English. “He is hiding behind an immense block of rock and with each
breath he blows away our wall.”

“If you are men face the danger. If you are cowards run away. If you
conclude to stay, pause behind this mountain side and if the crickets
come in stay them if you can until re-enforcements arrive.”

The Selinites stopped, turned around and gathered up their weapons.
Slowly but determinedly they backed against the mountain Epworth
pointed out, and waited to see if their enemies came in. Here they
were protected from the big guns, and Epworth and Joan topped the
summit and sailed toward the copper wall. The defenders had departed
as one man but the crickets had made no attempt to enter. They were
waiting orders which were to come later.

Epworth had been bothered during his flight up to the wall about
getting out. He had been rushed to an extent that he had had little
time for the details of battle, and now he found that there were no
Selinites to open and close the wall gates for the gliders, which he
expected to shove out and start into the air on the other side.

However there was no necessity to open the gates. Toplinsky’s big gun,
fired only twice, had ripped the wall in a dozen places, and just as
they came up another discharge rent the air. The gun scattered and the
heavy slugs of rock, which Toplinsky was using instead of lead,
whistled by on all sides. While another strip of wall fell the
explosion only served to direct Epworth’s gaze to its hidden resting
spot.

“I am going to silence that gun,” he called to Joan in a low voice.
“Go back.”

“Not me,” Joan replied bravely. “I am going to aid you.”

“It is probably manned by Taunans.”

“Unlucky for them. I have my chloroform gun.”

               *       *       *       *       *

The Taunans and crickets did not see the camouflaged gliders slip
softly out of the border gap, and sail slowly toward the smoking gun
nest. They were ramming another load into the breech when suddenly
from above them came a stream of greenish gas. When they looked up a
strange bird-like animal was hanging over their heads, and sprinkling
their faces with some mysterious fluid that smelt——

This was as far as they got in their cogitations. Under the powerful
stroke of chlorine gas they fell on the ground unconscious, and
Epworth dropped silently by the side of the monstrous cannon. Around
him were scattered numerous cartridges stuffed with stones and gun
cotton, and separating himself from his glider, with desperate haste
he began to tear the roughly made cartridges to bits. Presently he had
a large pile of gun cotton beneath the breech of the gun and stretched
along the barrel. Then he strapped on his glider and took to the air,
circled slowly around the gun and dropped a lighted match in the gun
cotton.

It was a reckless act, and he knew it. The second the match left his
hand he whirled his bicycle motor rapidly and pedaled with all of his
strength.

He was lucky. The gun cotton did not blow up until he was out of the
danger zone, and the explosion destroyed the usefulness of the cannon.
With a grim smile Epworth sailed back to the borderland. He was just
in time to meet an army of planes headed by Moawha and Billy.

His orders were for the pigmies to fight in pairs. One soldier, armed
with a chlorine gun, was to fly over a cricket, discharge his gun into
his face, and another Selinite was instructed to lean out of his
glider as he passed over and spear the crickets as they staggered. The
gliders, it is well to state, were made large enough to carry two of
the small Selinites, and the soldiers were equipped with gas masks.

Epworth had hoped to assault the crickets at a time when they were not
expecting a battle but in this he was unsuccessful. Toplinsky had
already begun the battle. However, in compliance with his orders when
the gun was put out of commission a horde of Selinite soldiers rushed
up to aid in the defense of the wall.

The fight began with a clear sky but the explosion of the heavy gun
seemed to shake the air and send clouds of blackened powder upward,
and long before the gliders were in good action a dark cloud spread
across the sky. This aided the men in the air, and they sailed over
the cricket army with very few fatalities. Their execution was
terrible.

When the gliders reached the end of the cricket army they sent up
rockets, and then darted hither and yon over the rear ranks shooting
chloroform in great quantities on all sides. Thousands of crickets
began to rush pell mell to and fro. While they were ready to obey
their masters and fight anything on the ground this mysterious smell
that came out of the air above them from winged birds that did not
flap their wings was something they could not understand, and they
threw down their arms and began to seek safety.

When this movement was completed and Epworth discovered that they had
the crickets frightened he sent up more orders in the way of rockets
which brought the Selinites in vast numbers charging down the side of
the mountain with chloroform guns and spears in their hands.

And it was then that Toplinsky awoke to a bedlam of defeat around him.
Everywhere his army was seeking safety; everywhere crickets were
chirping wildly, demoralized, frightened; rushing over each other and
crushing their pigmy officers. Toplinsky waved his arms and howled,
cursed loudly, and hammered crickets with his great fists to force
them back into battle; promised them victory, wheeled, fought and
anathematized. But it was all in vain. A swarm of hopping insects shot
by him on their way to the dark caves of Agrippa.

Presently the giant paused in manhandling his men, and sniffed the
air. At the moment a Selinite glided by and shot a stream of wet stuff
into his face. He closed his nostrils, and struck a mighty blow at the
Selinite who was trying to gas him from the glider. Instantly he was
surrounded by men, and recognizing the fact that he had been
chloroformed he suppressed his breath and charged into the Selinites
who were upon him.

Toplinsky was in truth a mighty fighter—a giant of matchless courage,
and single handed he stemmed the tide of opposition.

“Ah, ha, ho, ho,” he howled like a madman. “That cursed American! He
is smart. How I hate him. Come out of the air, you coward, and fight
like a man.”

Epworth, who was sailing near by, heard him.

“I am here, Toplinsky, and this is final.”

He dropped out of the air by the side of the giant, releasing his
glider. Toplinsky charged with a bellow like a stuck bull. Epworth
side stepped and slammed a terrific right into the giant’s face, and
then a left into his side.

“Same old tactics,” sneered the scientist, “but you can’t get me that
way.”

He jerked his gun. But he was destined never to fire. Moawha, with a
host of her fighting men swept between them, and brandished their
spears in the giant’s face.

“Hold!” Epworth shouted loudly. “Do not kill him. Take him alive. He
is the only man who can pilot a ship back to the earth.”

“Ha, ha, ho, ho, the bantam wishes to return. He shall not.”

With a laugh like a demon the giant swept the small figures aside,
whirled, and lifting Queen Carza upon his shoulders, leaped away into
the night.

The rout of the crickets was complete. When the morning came and the
clouds rolled away the field was a shambles and crickets lay gassed in
piles. And Moawha and her soldiers were chasing the crickets in every
direction. Across the arid wastes of Carza’s kingdom, on to her
capital, a handsome city of twenty thousand inhabitants, and up to the
mouth of the great crater that shot upward out of the inner world of
the moon toward the unknown skies, Moawha’s soldiers followed the
crickets.

But now the crickets were in the air, and when they came to the
Agrippa Crater the little people were stopped. True they had been able
to capture the entire land of the Taunans, and make prisoners of the
leading military commanders but Carza and Toplinsky, convoyed by a
band of winged crickets, had deserted the field of action and were
flying rapidly toward the crater. Epworth, Joan and Moawha chased them
to the opening, and stopped. Their gliders, while strong enough to
support them in the inner atmosphere, were not able to fly up through
that dark forbidding hole.

Toplinsky, although defeated for the moment, discovered this, and
stopped his band of crickets at the entrance.

“Ah, ha, ho! ho!” he shouted in his shrill loud voice that carried far
into the inner world. “For the moment the American bantam triumphs.
But the war has only begun. Soon I shall come again. The next time my
valiant crickets and brave Taunans shall be armed with gases and guns
that will slay millions. Until that time——”

Epworth and Moawha saw him wave his hands as if in high spirits. His
action cast a damper over Moawha’s spirits, and Joan also was
troubled.

“W-w-what would you advise?” Moawha asked of Epworth with much
anxiety. “Never before have my soldiers been this far, and it seems to
me if the crickets pour out of that hole over our heads, armed as that
giant asserts they will be, they can creep upon us when we are asleep,
and totally annihilate my forces.”

“It is a serious problem,” Epworth replied thoughtfully. “You say that
you have a million fighting men?”

“About that number.”

“Then we’ve got to go up into that hole, and clean out that nest
before Toplinsky has time to arm them. Give him three weeks and he
will certainly destroy your country.”




CHAPTER XXVI

Writhing, Wriggling Ramphs


To prevent Toplinsky from sending a swarm of crickets out of the
crater hole Epworth planted an army beneath the opening. The soldiers
were armed with the longest range chloroform guns, and many of them
were placed on the mountains that thrust up their summits near the
crater. Then the young man turned his attention to solving the problem
of seeing in the dark.

Tearing apart the cavern lamps he had hidden when he left his glider
at this place he called in the brightest of the Selinite scientists
and studied the lamps carefully. Fortunately he had worked with ofen
glass in his aviation work, and now he discovered that the outer lens
of the lamps were made of this quartz glass, and the scientists
informed him that behind the glass had been placed a coat of rhodamine
dye. Thus an invisible image had been formed by ultra violet rays, and
had been held by the rhodamine dye in a way that the darkness could
not dissolve the image before it reached the eye.

When this discovery was made and the secret of the cavern lamps
exposed he ordered two hundred thousand cavern lamps made as quickly
as possible.

While he was doing this Toplinsky came down near the crater opening on
the back of a crawling cricket, discovered the army camped beneath
him, and dropped two large bombs on the Selinites.

“That’s just a reminder,” the giant shouted through a huge megaphone,
“that I am getting busy. In two weeks—ah, ha! perhaps in two weeks—I
shall come again.” The Selinites shot up at him and his crickets with
their chloroform guns, and were rewarded by a loud laugh, and then
silence.

A terrifying, baffling gloom settled down on the Selinites. They had
won a great victory, they had chased the crickets out of their country
and had captured the Land of Taunan, and yet they realized that a man
who could drop bombs out of the sky in the end would defeat them.
Epworth, who was also puzzled deeply over a way to get into the
crater, heard this underground rumbling, and felt his own spirits
dampen. He and his sister, Joan, and Billy, of all the people in the
Lunar world, knew just how dangerous Toplinsky was.

It was during a period of his deepest gloom that the leader of the
Sons of the Great Selina came out of his mountain retreat and called
on him.

“You wish to go up into the crater?” the councilman inquired with a
sly smile.

Epworth did not like the smile. There seemed to be hidden treachery
behind the smirk. But he was in a desperate hurry. He felt sure that
if given time he could finally build an airship operated by
electricity with a wire line attached to a power plant constructed
beneath the crater to run an electric motor on the plane but this
could only carry a limited number of soldiers, and what he had to do
must be done at once. “I certainly do,” he answered abruptly, putting
aside his suspicions.

“It will take courage.”

“I am not boasting of courage,” the young American said quietly.

“The path leads through a nest of ramphs—many thousands of the most
vicious reptiles known.”

Epworth shuddered. The fights he had had with this monstrous Thing on
the bridge, and inside of the crater were still fresh in his mind.

“If it is the only way,” he responded.

The councilman of the Great Selina patted him on the shoulder.

“Certainly you have courage. It is a pity you are not a Son of the
Great Selina. Perhaps if you clean out the dangers of this world we
may make you an honorary member. You remember the dark chasm beneath
the bridge that is near the retreat of our order?”

“I should say. I was just thinking of the terrific battle we had with
one of the monsters on that bridge as you were speaking of them.”

“It came up out of that chasm. Drop down to the bottom of that chasm,
follow it inside of the planet into a narrow tunnel until you come to
the Chamber of Horrors, clean out the Chamber of Horrors, cross it and
enter another corridor that leads straight ahead and upward, and if
you live you will come to the home of the crickets.”

“Did you ever make that journey?” Epworth demanded sharply.

“No, I care not to meet those terrifying reptiles.”

“How then do you know that this chasm will lead me to the crickets?”

“Other Sons of the Great Selina, more hardy than our present council,
made the trip ages ago, and left records.”

               *       *       *       *       *

Epworth put himself at the head of an army of two hundred thousand
Selinites armed with chloroform guns and long sharp steel spears, and
with their heads covered with gas masks, and their eyes aided by
cavern lamps, lowered the soldiers into the chasm on long ropes,
gliders, and various devices of a temporary character. At a point
where the chasm extended into the earth and the light of day was shut
out he stopped in a narrow defile, and addressed the army briefly.

“We are going into that hole,” he said slowly, instructing all who
could hear to carry his words on to the rear ranks. “If we come out
your country will be saved. If we do not come out your wives and
children will know that you are dead, and become the slaves of the
crickets and Taunans.”

With this he adjusted his cavern lamp, and darted forward. The moment
he left the light of day and looked downward he saw that the floor of
the cavern was slightly sandy. Soon he discovered evidence of gigantic
bodies having been dragged through the sandy soil. Examination
disclosed the fact that they had been made by lizard-shaped ramphs
over a hundred feet long with six feet on each side of their bodies.

When Epworth and Joan saw the imprint of these feet cold chills passed
down their backs. Very likely there were thousands of these Things
ahead of them, and every time they thought of the fight they had had
with one of the Things near the cricket home Epworth shook with fear,
and Joan thought that her mind would be shattered.

Nevertheless they marched bravely into the hole in the moon.

Onward, climbing steadily upward, hour after hour, moving like silent
shadows in order that their presence might not be betrayed, the
Selinites marched with Epworth, Joan, Billy, and Queen Moawha at their
head. They traveled with their chloroform guns in their hands, and
their eyes straining ahead, the way being given additional light by
strong electric flash lights. The danger Epworth was aware would not
have been as great if he had had room to spread out his army but the
corridor was so narrow in places that he could march his men only a
hundred abreast.

               *       *       *       *       *

They had been climbing upward fifteen hours, pushing earnestly ahead,
when they were warned that they were approaching something by a
noisome smell that came to their nostrils. Joan was the first to get
the scent, and she stopped with a shudder.

“I know now what that smell means,” she whispered in a frightened
voice, “and I can also feel the invisible movement of the Things
ahead. They are preparing for us.”

The idea that innumerable great and mysterious monsters were preparing
to do battle against them caused Epworth and Billy to pause also and
shoot their flash lights far ahead.

“There is something uncanny, terrifying, unnatural, inhuman about the
Things,” Epworth answered. “I feel as if I were going forth to battle
with gigantic spiritual monsters of evil. They move so swiftly, so
silently. They are on you before you know it.”

Billy’s teeth chattered, and Joan trembled violently. The horrors of
that dark underground world were upon them notwithstanding the fact
that they were backed by a splendid army.

Epworth waited until several hundred soldiers were around them, and
then gave orders to march forward with all their flash lights hurling
flames ahead.

The cavern heretofore had been a long, narrow corridor. Now it
suddenly flared out into an immense underground chamber, and at the
entrance of this chamber, lying flat and the color of their bodies
changing like variegated lizards to fit into their surroundings, were
twelve round-bodied, scaly backed animals with polygonal plates
covering their heads. They had their tongues sticking out, and their
three red eyes glared savagely.

“Flash every light into their eyes,” Epworth shouted. “Blind them.”

Instantly a hundred flashes of steady crimson shot into the eyes of
the ramphs, and their tails began to lash up and down on the gray
floor. Their changing colors made this motion barely perceptible.

“Now let twenty chloroform guns shoot into their eyes and nostrils.”

The gas guns were long straight tubes that carried repeated shots of
chloroform, and by the time the twenty guns had fired one shot each
the twelve ramphs had dropped their heads.

“Glory be!” Joan cried. “It works.”

“Advance and use your spears.”

One hundred men rushed forward, and began to thrust at the doped
reptiles. Their thrusts were seemingly useless, the hard gristle of
the lizards turning the spears easily. For a moment Epworth was
nonplussed. They could chloroform the Things but how could they kill
them?

“Stab them in their eyes!” he commanded sharply, stepping up to one of
the monsters, which was over a hundred feet long, and jabbing his own
weapon into the monster’s middle eye. “Perhaps that will get them.”

It did. The animal, stricken, doubled up suddenly, and lashed downward
with its tail then quieted down. Epworth stepped over its immense leg,
and looked into the chamber. What he saw caused him to draw back
hastily.

He was looking into a large subterranean world alive with hideous
Things. Thousands of them were slinking back against the floor,
changing their color to suit the rugged rocks around them until they
were almost invisible; others were standing on their rear feet gazing
toward the entrance; others were fastened to the walls of the chamber
with their fierce eyes glaring fire. The young American felt his blood
run cold.

Would it be possible to wipe out this pest hole with his army of
little children—small men who depended entirely on his leadership?

A little thought convinced him that it was imperative that they must
take the ramphs by surprise. But the fact that there had been twelve
reptiles at the entrance indicated that there was some sort of a
military organization that knew the value of sentinels.

He glanced again into the chamber. This time he steeled himself to
meet the horror. The monsters, while many of them had their heads
lifted, had not discovered the presence of enemies.

Fearing that the flash lights might arouse them he ordered all lights
closed, and made an investigation with his cavern lamps. In front of
him the enormous chamber extended as far as the eye could reach, and
the walls went up to a ceiling he knew was there but could not see. At
the outer edge of his vision he could make out a pool of black water.
The pool and the chamber were full of writhing, wriggling, monstrous
reptiles. Old lizards, young lizards, male lizards, female lizards,
baby lizards, lizards in all stages of growth, crawled like ants
around the chamber and into the lake.

A wave of despondency swept over the young man. A single lizard,
crashing into the narrow corridor where his army was concealed, could
wipe it clean of human life. He must get his men out of the corridor
where they could spread out, and he must do it without letting the
lizards know they were in the chamber.

Quietly, with desperate courage, he placed himself at the head of his
soldiers and gave whispered orders, and slipped cautiously into the
ramph chamber. The smell was awful, nauseating, sickening, almost
death-dealing.

“A Chamber of Horrors, truly!” Joan gasped. “Will we ever get out?”

However the Selinites moved with such caution that several hundred
soldiers were in the room, and lined up along the sides of the walls
nearest the entrance before their presence was noticed.

“We must protect the entrance,” Epworth urged. “The second a lizard
starts into it we must get him, and keep the door open for our
companions to come in. Fire obliquely with your chloroform guns.”

He had hardly ceased speaking when the battle began.

One who has seen a lizard dart up the trunk of a tree can form an idea
of the incredible swiftness of these great monsters. Before Epworth
was aware a huge Thing dropped from the ceiling in front of him with a
shrill siren call to its companions. Its eyes were flaming red; its
mouth was foaming; its split tongue, protruding in evil menacing,
twisted to and fro swiftly. It came with such awful quickness that
Epworth was paralyzed for a second.

Joan saved him.

With remarkable calmness she extended her long light chloroform tube,
and squirted the gas into the reptile’s snorting nostrils. It sent out
a flaming, overpowering smoke, snorted fearfully, and toppled over
immediately in front of Epworth, who jumped back hastily against the
wall, and thrust his sharp spear into its eye. Then with a little gasp
of horror he grabbed Joan and dropped down behind the animal’s body,
making it a fortress against another attack. Thus protected the two
began to use their dope guns with deadly effect. Their example was
followed by the soldiers under their command.

In the meantime Billy and Moawha, who were leading the attack on the
opposite side of the entrance, were having an experience very similar,
although Billy dropped the first reptile quicker than Epworth had
done, and protected his men with greater ease.

In a short time the lizards were piled up around the entrance for
several hundred yards, and were climbing over each other in a vain
attempt to get to the soldiers. This enabled the Selinites to run out
of the narrow corridor and join their companions, thus pushing the
tide of battle back on the lizards, and piling them high around. While
many of the Selinites were hurt, in two hours the entire army was
inside of the Chamber of Horrors, and the battle was won.

Soon the great chamber was full of chlorine gas, and the ramphs were
choking, snorting, snapping death (without knowing where it came from)
while the Selinites were protected by their gas masks. Now Epworth
commanded a company of soldiers to circle around the place, find the
tunnel on the other side that led to the Cricket World, and bar it up
with stones in order to keep the gas inside of the ramph chamber.

When this was accomplished the reptiles were driven from the walls and
floors into the lake of black water. This lake, Epworth found out, was
several miles long and over a mile wide but the water was shallow, and
proved of little aid to the lizards. When the reptiles stuck their
heads under the water they gained some respite but not understanding
what was troubling them they lifted their heads immediately, again to
be caught by the breath of chloroform. Then they sank never to rise.

When the dope had cleaned them out, the Selinites calmly plunged their
spears into their eyes.

At the end of a day’s hard fighting the work was done. Not a single
ramph was left to start another race of monsters, and Epworth, opening
the tunnel on the opposite side, led his soldiers out of the
terrifying place, and sealed it up again in order that the fumes
should be confined to the area occupied by the lizards.

Then, after a long rest, he turned his face toward that nightmare of
horror—the home of the crickets. Here he expected to meet Toplinsky
armed with gun cotton, huge guns, and powerful explosives, an
intelligent man leading a multiple host of soulless insects—insects
that ate flesh of all kinds of men and animals.




CHAPTER XXVII

Carza’s Use of Lava Streams


While he was backed by an army of Selinites, Epworth felt as he came
to a halt in front of a crude stone wall as if the lives of thousands
of little children were in his hands. Under his leadership these
little men could be brave and victorious. Without him he imagined that
they would melt like snow before the onrush of the crickets, and the
vicious Taunan dwarfs. To protect them he concluded to go ahead and
reconnoiter.

He recognized the corridor. It was the place where he and Joan had had
their first encounter with a ramph. He shivered again as he thought of
the uncanny feeling that had swept over him at the time.

They discovered that the wall which blocked their way was of recent
construction, and that it cut them off from the Lava Chamber. When
they attempted to remove the heavy stones they proved burdensome
although no attempt had been made to cement the stones into position.

Finally Epworth and Joan removed their gas masks and cavern lamps, and
thrust their heads through the new-made hole in the wall. As they
expected they found that the little stream of spluttering, moving fire
sent out a dim light that created ghostly shadows, and dark spots,
deepened by the fact that their eyes were not accustomed to any light
except that given by the photographing of dark images on the ofen
glass and rhodamine dye by the cavern lamps.

The chamber appeared empty, and Epworth stepped through the wall into
the chamber.

“Come on,” he said to Joan, “everything seems all right.”

Joan obeyed quickly, and the two turned to step across the chamber
toward the lava stream. As they moved away Billy and Moawha, who had
been aiding them in removing the loose stones, ran back to join the
Selinite army. This left the man and girl alone to spy out the
situation.

“Ah, come in lads! Sure everything is all right,” a shrill voice
called out. “Most assuredly the goose hangs high. Throw up your
hands!”

The last command was jerked out viciously.

Epworth rubbed his eyes and glanced in the direction of the voice. He
did not need to be told that the speaker was Toplinsky. The giant was
standing behind the divan on which he first saw Moawha, and had a long
rifle pointed at his heart. Near Toplinsky were Queen Carza, and six
Taunans, all of whom were covering him with guns.

The young American dropped to his knees and plunged forward like a
football player. Joan stood still, not knowing what to do.

Toplinsky and the Taunans fired but their bullets went wild. Before
they could shoot again Epworth was on the giant. But the divan was in
the way, and he was forced to stand up, and drive at Toplinsky’s face
with his clenched hand. With a howl of rage the giant threw his
immense arms around the young man and pinioned him as he was struck.

“Ah, ha! I have you at last. In these great arms I hold you. You are
my meat.” Toplinsky grinned to himself as he thought of the trap he
had laid for these spies when he heard the noise of the stones being
removed. “I shall delight in squeezing you to death.”

“Not so, my dear,” Queen Carza put in sweetly. “This earth man has
given us much trouble, and he has sneaked in here for no gentle
purpose. We must discover his purpose. Let me deal with him.”

“Just as you say, my little one. Ho, soldiers! Tie him up tight.”

The command was obeyed quickly, Epworth’s hands and feet being laced
together.

“What are you doing here?” Carza inquired slyly, shoving her thumb
viciously into Joan’s ribs. “Where did you come from? We know that
that passage leads to the ramph chamber, and you must have found some
other way to get in. Tell us about it, my little dear.” Her voice was
soft but menacing.

She pinched Joan wickedly, and the girl shrank from her.

“The man will tell,” Toplinsky broke in anxiously. “The girl——”

“Is nothing to you,” Queen Carza interrupted brittlely. “And I do not
like her.”

Toplinsky did not reply. Stooping down he removed Epworth’s sandals,
and pushed up the pants until his knees were exposed. Queen Carza,
noting the soft white skin, rubbed his leg gently.

“Nice. Soft. White.” She spoke very pleasantly. “Almost as soft——”

She removed Joan’s stockings, and pointed at the stream of lava.

“Why the girl?” Toplinsky protested. “We are not making war on women.”

This remark astonished Epworth. He was of the opinion that Toplinsky
would not hesitate to war on a child.

“The man may let us burn his legs but he will not permit the delicate
coloring of his sister’s legs to be changed by harsh measures.”

Toplinsky shuddered. He really had no intention of burning Epworth’s
legs. His act was a bluff in the hope of getting the American to speak
up.

“Yes we will begin with the man.” The queen kneeled down by the side
of the American and smilingly stroked his leg. “But think not of the
woman kindly. It is not likely that she will ever leave this chamber,
so you had best forget her.”

“She came with me against my will,” Epworth asserted. “I am the one
who holds the scheme under his hat, and you two are not going to
discover it.”

“Tush, tush, my friend,” Toplinsky sneered. “That is too bad.”

“Nice white legs that will burn quickly.” Queen Carza pulled Epworth
slowly toward the lava fire. He was surprised at the strength she
displayed. She stopped before she got to the stream of lava but when
she placed his bare legs on the stone floor he discovered that it was
scorching hot.

“Not too hot but comfortably nice,” Carza observed with an interested
stare, and added brightly, “did I understand that you wanted to talk?”

Epworth thought of the Selinite soldiers hidden in that narrow passage
just beyond the pile of loose boulders. If Toplinsky discovered that
they were there he could roll into the lava chamber one of his big
guns and clean the passage of every vestige of life. The Selinites
could neither retreat or advance. Inwardly he cursed the evil ramph
corridor but outwardly he was calm and even-tempered. He shook his
head quietly and looked at Joan.

Joan understood him, and he saw her clench her teeth. It broke his
heart to think of the torture that would come to her but he was now
convinced that Toplinsky would never know that his foes were getting
ready to spring out of the darkness upon him.

“No, he does not wish to talk, and he has such a long tongue, and it
can wag so swiftly at times. Perhaps the lady would like to talk for
him?”

Carza shoved Epworth up to the edge of the lava stream, and permitted
his legs to hang over the spluttering fires. At the same time she
looked inquiringly at Joan. Joan shook her head dumbly. She would
gladly give her life to save Epworth from torment but this had now
become a question of honor.

“No!”

Carza waved her hand. Instantly her Taunan soldiers sprang forward,
and dragged Joan up to the stream of lava. The sweat of torture began
to pour from the faces of Epworth and Joan.

“No, stop it!”

Toplinsky leaped across the chamber and dragged Joan from the fire.

“Ah, so you want her. You think that you will keep her, and when you
get control of the world you will throw me down and make her your
queen. I have feared it.”

“Honestly, I never thought of it that way,” Toplinsky replied abashed.




CHAPTER XXVIII

In the Armory


Carza stamped her foot with imperial authority. The Taunans grasped
Joan and lifted her in their arms.

“Hold! Drop the girl.”

Billy and Moawha, both of whom had grown anxious over the prolonged
absence of Epworth and Joan, thrust their faces through the hole in
the wall. The second Billy saw his friend he understood the situation,
and shouted loudly. But he was not satisfied with calling out.

Thrusting his chloroform gun through the wall he sprayed the six
Taunans who were carrying Joan toward the fire. The chloroform
stupified them instantly, and Joan fell to the floor. Immediately
Billy, Moawha and many Selinite soldiers crowded into the chamber.
Moawha and her soldiers used their guns on the dwarfs and while they
were doing this Billy rushed to the aid of Joan and Epworth. Slashing
the cords that held them he grabbed some gas masks from two of the
Selinite soldiers and brought them down over Epworth’s and Joan’s
heads.

This was an infinite relief to Epworth and Joan. Already they were
feeling the effects of the chlorine, and as soon as they experienced
the relief they sprang to their feet, and shot their eyes around in
search of Toplinsky and Queen Carza. They were in time to see the two
leaders dashing toward an open door.

“This way!” Epworth called out hurriedly. “Toplinsky and the queen are
rushing to organize the crickets. We must beat them to it.”

Followed by Joan and many Selinite soldiers Epworth pursued Toplinsky
and the queen. As they passed corridor after corridor of caves Queen
Carza sent out her chirping warning to the crickets.

While Epworth and Joan chased anxiously after Toplinsky, Billy and
Moawha stopped many of the Selinite soldiers, and began to pour
chloroform at the insects. But not all of the soldiers followed them.
Several thousand rushed after Epworth and Joan.

Suddenly Toplinsky and the queen, who had been dimly visible down the
corridor, disappeared. When Epworth and Joan arrived at the point
where they had disappeared they found themselves looking down a long
incline into an immense chamber. The moment he saw this chamber
Epworth realized that he was looking at the magazine and armory that
Toplinsky had prepared for the crickets. The space was teeming with
crickets, multiplied thousands of them. Toplinsky was standing on a
keg of powder bellowing commands, which were translated to the
crickets by the queen in the chirping voice of the crickets.

As Epworth stopped he looked behind him, and discovered that he was
followed by Selinite soldiers ready to attack the crickets. Already
Toplinsky was forming gun troops to shoot heavy cannon balls down the
corridor he was standing in. If Toplinsky could get his big guns into
operation he would annihilate the small army of Selinites in the
corridor.

Epworth was worried. What should he do? His entire scheme of surprise
had fallen flat before he could get his chloroform guns battering at
the center of the cricket population.

A blundering cricket solved his problem for him. A dwarf was
explaining to the cricket the method of firing a cannon with a torch.
The cricket fumbled the torch, and the flame fell on a powder fuse.

The fuse was Toplinsky’s fatal mistake.

He had placed it and connected it with all of the powder and
explosives he had made with the intention of trapping invaders in the
armory, and blowing them up. It was a good idea of defense properly
managed.

Now the torch fired the fuse, and the blaze spluttered along toward
the great magazine like a swiftly crawling snake. Toplinsky saw it,
and dashed recklessly at the fuse to stamp it out. He did not pause to
lower the queen, who was sitting on his shoulders.

He ran like the wind. Swiftly spluttered the fuse. Great beads of
sweat slipped out of the giant’s face. It was a race with death.

Faster and faster raced the fuse. Toplinsky, in his hurry, forgot the
gravity of the moon. He lifted his foot as if running in an Olympic
meet. The act caused him to topple over although it carried him nearer
the goal. Staggering to his feet, with the queen still clinging to his
shoulders, he made another attempt.

Now the spluttering fire was almost to the magazine. Epworth shuddered
and jerked Joan back. If Toplinsky failed——

The giant was almost on the fuse; he lifted his foot upward to stamp
out the fire. Again in his excitement he overlooked the moon’s light
gravity. His foot came down on the opposite side of the spluttering
fire.

There came a terrific explosion. It sounded like an inside volcano
blowing off the top of the moon.

Epworth and Joan were lucky. They were standing in a corridor
Toplinsky had set apart as a safety valve for the men who fired the
fuse if commanded. Crouching down they saw the interior of the
tremendous cavern shoot upward. Then rocks and debris began to fall
with loud crashes.

The sides and roof of the cavern had caved in, and the debris was
showering down like falling snow.

The vast horde of crickets that had been rushing around arming
themselves and pushing guns forward to drive out the Selinites
disappeared as if by magic.

Toplinsky, their scientific leader, had brought annihilation to
himself and his whole colony of crickets by his shrewd attempts to
slay others.

The living remnants of crickets, hidden in their secret nests, were
hunted down by the Selinite soldiers, who rooted them out forever.

Moawha, kind-hearted and troubled, granted amnesty to the Taunan
dwarfs when they pledged allegiance to the Selinite nation.




CHAPTER XXIX

Out of the Depths


Epworth, Joan, and Billy soon grew weary of life with the Selinites.
They were banqueted, honored in every way possible, and assured
constantly of the gratitude and friendship of Moawha and her people.
But the people were little, the houses were small, life was narrowed
to investigations of the interior of the moon, and what they could
learn from the Selinite scientists.

In addition to this Epworth felt that it was his duty to go back to
the Aerolite, and give aid to the colonists. They had made him
co-leader with Toplinsky; and they expected him to give them the best
advice and help he could. It entered his mind that he could bring them
down into the interior of the moon where they could live with greater
ease.

But when he spoke of this to Moawha she demurred. She had heard about
the colonists from Joan, and she was not impressed with the idea of
turning a lot of robbers and bad men loose among her people.

“At first, under your control, they might behave themselves,” she
said, “but if you were to die they might decide to run wild, and annoy
my people.”

“That is true,” Epworth admitted reluctantly. “I am not bragging about
their religious background.”

“Even if I agreed, there comes the question of getting them here. How
would you manage that? How will you go back to them?”

“We might take them back to the earth,” Billy suggested.

“That is another problem with Toplinsky dead. Just the same I am going
to see just how easy it will be for us to fly up to the outer crust
through Crater Agrippa.”

“When you make the attempt I go with you,” said the loyal Joan.

“Count me in it,” Billy added.

“Very well; we are on our way.”

To accomplish the ascending flight Epworth made three large
motor-gliders. Well supplied with provisions for the trip, the three
hardy Americans, accompanied by Moawha, made their way to the spot
where the hole of the crater opened out from the inner world of the
moon. It was a great frowning, black hole but the hardy adventurers
did not let the looks of the route affect them. They bade Moawha a
pleasant farewell, climbed into their gliders, and began to pedal
around in a circle. In this manner they soon left the land of the
Selinites, the light of day, and climbed up into the darkness with
their flashlights in hand and their cavern lanterns fastened to their
heads.

The upward trip was uneventful until Epworth suddenly found himself
flying near a roof of large boulders and rocks which had not been
there when they came down from the cricket nest. When he was joined by
Joan and Billy all three flew around in a circle looking for an
opening that would lead them upward.

They could find no way to go out.

“What has happened?” Billy inquired in great alarm when they
discovered that their way out was blocked. “All these rocks were not
here when we came down.”

“It looks to me as if that terrific explosion that Toplinsky set off
has caused the insides of the crater to fall in and block all passage
upward,” Epworth reasoned. “We are probably in a part of the crater
which was narrow, and when the big boulders fell they crashed
together.”

“That means that we are not going out,” Joan observed very quietly.
She was very anxious to get out and try to get back to the earth. Of
the three she was the one who had little interest in the inside of the
moon. “I—I—had been building up great hopes.”

Epworth made a thorough examination of the rocks and debris that
blocked the way.

“We are not going out this way,” he said, shaking his head sadly. “It
looks as if we are doomed to become Selinites.”

“Moawha and her people are very charming,” Joan added thoughtfully,
“but they are not our kind of people. They like us now but the
Selinites may take a notion to change rulers over night. If they did
we might not be so popular.”

“The light in the Land of the Selinites is steady, constant, and never
lets up,” Billy put in. “You have explained that to me with the
statement that the sun shines all the time through an open space in
Mount Leibnitz. That means that there is an outer opening in that
mountain. Why not try going out that way?”

“Billy, you are a scholar and a statesman,” Epworth declared
enthusiastically. “We will do that very thing.”

They returned to Moawha’s city, and explained to her why they could
not go on to the outer portion of the moon. When they told her that
they were going to try to go out through the hole in Mount Leibnitz
she immediately informed them that she would go with them as far as
Mount Leibnitz.

Moawha had spent her entire life in the Land of the Selinites, and the
idea that there was a great ball of fire out in space and shining
through the outer rim of the moon was new and strange to her.

“I can’t believe that there is such a fire,” she exclaimed. “If there
is I want to see it.”

Again Epworth, Joan and Billy, accompanied by Moawha, made a journey
with a view of gaining the exterior. It was not a hard trip. All four
had motor-gliders, and were able to fly easily over the rugged hills
and interior projections of the moon which stuck up like small
mountains.

But as they approached the great Mount Leibnitz the air grew warmer
and warmer. Presently it became intensely hot, and even when they
faced this heat they did not get a view of the sun. It was the steady
flame of sunlight reflected against the rugged interior near the south
pole that created the heat.

Nevertheless Epworth insisted on pressing onward. Finally they came to
a mountain that ran up into a sharp peak. This mountain reflected many
and varied coruscations, indicating that it was a large heap of
colored stones. The heat here was almost unbearable but Epworth
persisted in his advance until the three stood on a high peak with a
blazing light all around them. Epworth was the first one to climb to
the top of this peak.

“There, Moawha, is the mass of fire that makes the light and heat for
your world.”

He turned, and lifted the little queen in his arms. What she saw
caused her to cover her eyes with her hands and scream.

A great ball of blazing fire, bigger than anything Epworth had ever
seen, shot down at them from out of the sky. Its heat was scorching,
burning, blistering. Just a few moments under that blazing glare, and
their clothing would be scorched, their flesh would be a mass of
blisters, and they would fall down never to rise, yet this was their
only way out!

“We can’t go out here,” Joan remarked quietly, as she pulled her
brother back so that he was protected from the blazing sun by the top
of the mountain. “This is just the beginning. There may be miles and
miles of heated interior before we can get out of the hole to outer
space.”

“Then we will have the same heat until we get to a point where the
movements of the moon bring about the fourteen days of night.” Billy’s
voice was mournful. “It looks to me that we are inside of the moon for
keeps.”

Epworth led them down the mountain side to a spot where they were
given the shadows of the hill in a way that brought a little relief
from the terrible blaze. When he stopped he glanced at Joan’s hat. It
was a combination of light straw and cloth, held away from her head by
four slender slits of leather in such a way that the air percolated
through her hair.

Taking the hat in his hand he studied it for several moments.

“I have an idea,” he said quietly. “Let’s go back to the Land of the
Selinites, and work it out.”

Blindly his companions followed him, and for two weeks Epworth worked
with the best scientists of the Land.

The result of this labor was the construction of three hollow
body-helmets of asbestos, held away from the skin of the body so that
air could percolate between the asbestos and their bodies. Air helmets
for their heads were also made of asbestos. In addition to this, they
covered their gliders with asbestos. Over all Epworth spread a coat of
aluminum.

Thus prepared they flew again to the South Pole. Moawha went with
them.

“I am not going to let my good friends leave me as long as I can see
them,” she assured them. “Maybe you will have to come back again. I
hope so. But if you do not you shall know that Moawha loves you, and
wants you with her.”

It was a solemn parting. They left Moawha standing on the shady side
of Mount Leibnitz’ peak waving her hand at them, and crying softly.

All three sprang into the air at the same time. Epworth jockeyed his
glider near to Joan, and pointed upward. Upward meant straight into a
blazing sun without any signs of land around them until they passed
out of the crater.

“That for the heat!” shouted Billy when he got up into the glare of
the sun, and discovered that the improvised protection would in a way
answer the purpose. “I can stand a little heat.”

But he had no idea of the heat he would have to stand. Soon he
discovered that he had spoken joyfully too soon.

It was an endless fiery furnace. Hour after hour they circled upward
and outward. The hole in Mount Leibnitz proved of enormous size; the
heat was greater than any they had ever encountered.

Fortunately Epworth had brought his binoculars with him, and using
these, and his natural orientation, he was able to keep near the
western line of the crater and know when they had left the inner part
of the moon and had gained the outer portion.

Then began another long, wearisome journey, traveling over the surface
of the moon without a compass. Putting the sun to their backs the
three flew on, and on and on. But to give all the details of that
terrible trip through blinding, blazing heat would necessitate a
volume. They found some diminution in the heat after leaving the
crater of Mount Leibnitz. Had it not been so they would never have
accomplished their journey.

But finally they got to the Sea of Vapours and the lake that Toplinsky
had made. Here they met with a pleasant surprise.

Epworth and Billy were of the opinion that they would experience much
trouble in learning to operate the Aerolite. The nearer they got to
the Rocket ship the more depressed they became because of this idea.

But when they landed near the Aerolite they were met by Michael
Strauss. He greeted them joyfully.

“You are just in time,” he said, shaking their hands heartily. “I have
been digging into Toplinsky’s desk. The giant left hidden there some
blue prints of the Aerolite, and instructions about controlling it,
and directing its course. These instructions are simple to a navigator
and mechanic, and now that Toplinsky is dead I will undertake to guide
the Rocket back to the earth.”

Gladly Epworth placed the matter in Michael’s hands after he had read
the instructions, and under Michael’s skillful navigation the trip was
made safely.

Naturally Toplinsky’s moon colonization scheme fell through but
Epworth gave the colonists time to disappear from the Arctic camp, and
then he and Joan and Billy found their way back to America, and sent
government planes to recover the loot Toplinsky had stolen.

But one mystery always remained to trouble the astronomers. What had
made the dark spot near the corner of the Sea of Vapours, and why did
it gradually vanish?

THE END





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Moon Colony, by William Dixon Bell

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MOON COLONY ***

***** This file should be named 47576-0.txt or 47576-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/7/5/7/47576/

Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
